[Rank]
Feria II infra Hebdomadam I Adventus;;Feria major;;2

[Rule]
Oratio Dominica

[Lectio1]
Lesson from the book of Isaias
!Isa 1:16-18
16 Wash yourselves, be clean, take away the evil of your devices from my eyes: cease to do perversely,
17 Learn to do well: seek judgment, relieve the oppressed, judge for the fatherless, defend the widow.
18 And then come, and accuse me, saith the Lord: if your sins be as scarlet, they shall be made as white as snow: and if they be red as crimson, they shall be white as wool.

[Responsory1]
R. Receive, O Virgin Mary, receive the word of the Lord, which is sent thee by His Angel thou shalt conceive, and shalt bring forth God and Man together.
* And thou shalt be called blessed among all women.
V. Thou shalt bring forth a son, and remain a maiden undefiled thou shalt conceive and be a Mother, still Virgin unspotted.
R. And thou shalt be called blessed among all women.

[Lectio2]
!Isa 1:19-23
19 if you be willing, and will hearken to me, you shall eat the good things of the land.
20 But if you will not, and will provoke me to wrath: the sword shall devour you because the mouth of the Lord hath spoken it.
21 How is the faithful city, that was full of judgment, become a harlot? justice dwelt in it, but now murderers.
22 thy silver is turned into dross: thy wine is mingled with water.
23 thy princes are faithless, companions of thieves: they all love bribes, they run after rewards. They judge not for the fatherless: and the widow's cometh not in to them.

[Responsory2]
R. Sing, O heavens; and be joyful, O earth; and break forth into singing, O mountains, for our Lord will come
* And will have mercy on His afflicted.
V. In His days shall righteousness flourish and abundance of peace.
R. And will have mercy upon His afflicted.

[Lectio3]
!Isa 1:24-28
24 Therefore saith the Lord the God of hosts, the mighty one of Israel: Ah! I will comfort myself over my adversaries: and I will be revenged of my enemies.
25 And I will turn my hand to thee, and I will clean purge away thy dross, and I will take away all thy tin.
26 And I will restore thy judges as they were before, and thy counsellors as of old. After this thou shalt be called the city of the just, a faithful city.
27 Sion shall be redeemed in judgment, and they shall bring her back in justice.
28 And he shall destroy the wicked, and the sinners together: and they that have forsaken the Lord, shall be consumed.

[Responsory3]
R. There shall no strangers pass through Jerusalem any more
* For in that day the mountains shall drop down sweet wine, and the hills shall flow with milk and honey, saith the Lord.
V. God shall come from Lebanon, and the Holy One from the thick and shady mountain.
R. For in that day the mountains shall drop down sweet wine, and the hills shall flow with milk and honey, saith the Lord.
&Gloria
R. For in that day the mountains shall drop down sweet wine, and the hills shall flow with milk and honey, saith the Lord.


[Ant 2]
The angel of the Lord * announced unto Mary, and she conceived of the Holy Ghost. Alleluia.

[Ant 3]
Lift up thine eyes, * O Jerusalem, and see that thy King is mighty behold, thy Saviour shall come and loose thee from thy chain.
