[Rank]
Die Octavae S. Joseph;;Duplex majus;;4;;vide Tempora/Pasc2-3

[Rule]
vide Tempora/Pasc2-3
9 lectiones

[Lectio1]
Olvasmány a Jelenések könyvébõl
!Rev 5:1-7
1 A trónon ülõ jobbjában egy kívül-belül teleírt könyvtekercset láttam, amely hét pecséttel volt lepecsételve.
2 Aztán láttam egy hatalmas angyalt, aki nagy hangon kérdezte: "Ki méltó rá, hogy kibontsa a tekercset, feltörje pecsétjeit?"
3 De senki sem tudta, sem a mennyben, sem a földön, sem a föld alatt kibontani és elolvasni a tekercset.
4 Erre sírva fakadtam, hogy senki sem volt méltó a tekercset kinyitni és elolvasni.
5 Ekkor a vének közül az egyik így szólt hozzám: "Ne sírj! Íme, gyõzött az oroszlán Júda törzsébõl, Dávid sarja. Õ majd kinyitja a könyvet, feltöri hét pecsétjét."
6 Most azt láttam, hogy a trón és a négy élõlény és a huszonnégy vén között ott áll a Bárány, mintha leölték volna. Hét szarva volt és hét szeme - ezek az Isten hét szelleme, akiknek küldetésük az egész földre szól.
7 A (Bárány) odament, és átvette a trónon ülõ jobbjából a könyvet.

[Responsory1]
R. Thy streets, O Jerusalem, shall bel paved with pure gold, Alleluia, and the song of joy shall be sung in thee. Alleluia.
* And all that pass through all thy streets shall say Alleluia, Alleluia.
V. Thy light shall be exceeding glorious, and all the ends of the earth shall worship thee.
R. And all that pass through all thy streets shall say Alleluia, Alleluia.

[Lectio2]
!Rev 5:8-10
8 Amikor átvette a könyvet, a négy élõlény és a huszonnégy vén leborult a Bárány elõtt. Hárfája volt mindegyiknek és tömjénnel tele aranycsészéje - ezek a szentek imádságai.
9 Új éneket énekeltek: "Méltó vagy, hogy átvedd a könyvet és feltörd pecsétjeit, mert megöltek, és véreddel megváltottad (az embereket) Istennek, minden nyelvbõl, népbõl és nemzetbõl,
10 Istenünk országává és papjaivá tetted õket, és uralkodni fognak a földön."

[Responsory2]
R. The people of Israel sung: Alleluia and all the multitude of Jacob sung in measure.
* And David [was with the singers, (and) played upon an harp in the house of the Lord, and sung praises unto God. Alleluia, Alleluia.
V. So the Priests and the Levites were sanctified, and all Israel brought up the ark of the covenant of the Lord with shouting.
R. And David [was with the singers, (and) played upon an harp in the house of the Lord, and sung praises unto God. Alleluia, Alleluia.
&Gloria
R. And David [was with the singers, (and) played upon an harp in the house of the Lord, and sung praises unto God. Alleluia, Alleluia.

[Lectio3]
!Rev 5:11-14
11 És láttam meg hallottam sok angyalt, az élõlények és a vének hangját, akik a trón körül voltak, számuk tízezerszer tízezer, és ezerszer ezer volt,
12 és nagy szóval mondták: "Méltó a Bárány, akit megöltek, hogy övé legyen a hatalom, a gazdagság, a bölcsesség, az erõ, a tisztelet, a dicsõség és az áldás."
13 Majd hallottam, hogy minden teremtmény a mennyben, a földön, a föld alatt és a tengerben levõkkel együtt ezt mondta: "A trónon ülõnek és a Báránynak áldás, tisztelet, dicsõség és hatalom örökkön-örökké!"
14 A négy élõlény így felelt: "Ámen", a vének pedig leborultak és imádták.

[Responsory3]
R. And I heard a voice from heaven, as the noise of many waters and as the voice of great thunder, alleluia: the Lord shall reign for ever, alleluia:
* Now is come salvation and strength and the kingdom of our God and the power of his Christ, alleluia, alleluia.
V. And a voice came out from the throne, saying: Give praise to our God, all ye his servants: and you that fear him, little and great.
R. Now is come salvation and strength and the kingdom of our God and the power of his Christ, alleluia, alleluia.
&Gloria
R. Now is come salvation and strength and the kingdom of our God and the power of his Christ, alleluia, alleluia.

[Lectio4]
From a Sermon by St. Augustine the Bishop
!Liber 1 de Nupt. et Concup., c. 11
The Angel did not speak falsely when he said to Joseph : Fear not to take unto thee Mary thy wife.  She is called wife because of the mutual confidence established between them at the time of her espousal, although he had not known her carnally, nor was he ever so to do.  And the name of wife was not lost or rendered untrue because there had not been any carnal intercourse, and would not be in the future.  She was, in fact, The Virgin ; and therefore she was holier and a more wonderful source of joy to her husband just because she became a mother without a man's intervention.  Thus he knew her to be like unto himself in faithfulness, unlike him as regards her offspring.    On account of his faithful union, both of them merited the name of Christ's parents.  And not only is she called his Mother, but he also is called his father, as being the husband of his Mother, not according to the flesh, but according to the spirit.  But even though he was a father only in spirit, whilst she was Mother according to the flesh, yet they both were the parents of his humility, not of his glory ; of his infirmity, not of his divinity.

[Lectio5]
For the Gospel doth not lie, when it saith : And Joseph and his Mother marvelled at those things which were spoken of him.  And in another place : His parents went to Jerusalem every year.  And a little further on : And his Mother said unto him ; Son, why hast thou thus dealt with us? behold thy father and I have sought thee sorrowing.  But, to shew that, apart from them, he had a Father who begat him without a mother, he answered them : How is it that ye sought me? wist ye not that I must be about my Father's business?  And, as a set-off to this, lest anyone might think that by these words he denied his parents, the Evangelist immediately addeth : And they understood the saying which he spake unto them ; and he went down with them, and came to Nazareth, and was subject unto them.  To whom was he subject but to his parents? And who was thus subject but Jesus Christ, who, being in the form of God, thought it not robbery to be equal to God?

[Lectio6]
Why therefore was he subject to them who were so far below the form of God, except that he humbled himself, taking upon himself the form of a servant, of which form they were the parents?  But truly, neither of them would have attained unto the parenthood of this form of a servant, except they had become respectively husband and wife, albeit without any carnal intercourse.  And hence, when the ancestors of Christ are recounted in direct line of succession, the genealogy was fittingly traced down to Joseph.  Otherwise, it would have been a slur upon the male sex, which is wont to be accorded the greater dignity.  At the same time the truth did not suffer, for both Joseph and Mary were of the seed of David, from which it was prophesied that Christ should come.  Note how thus all the good things of marriage are found in these parents of Christ : offspring, fidelity, the marriage bond.  The offspring we know, was the Lord Jesus himself ; their fidelity is proved because there was no adultery ; the marriage bond, because there was no divorce. 

[Lectio7]
Evangélium szent Lukács Evangélista kõnyvébõl
!Luke 3:21-23	
At that time : When all the people were baptized, it came to pass, that Jesus also being baptized and praying, the heaven was opened.  And so on, and that which followeth.
_
A Homily by St. Augustine the Bishop
!Serm. 36 de Temp. Bapt. Christi
The day of his baptism is, as it were, a second birthday of the Saviour.  For we know that he was born with signs and wonders like to those of his baptism, and that in the latter is a great mystery like to his birth.  For God saith : This is my beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased.  This second birth is indeed more glorious than the first.  For then, he was born in silence, and without witnesses.  Now, the Lord is baptized with a proclamation of his divinity.  Then, Joseph, who was supposed to be his father, denied that he was.  Now, his true Father, who was not believed to be so, proclaimeth himself so to be.  Then, the Mother was enduring suspicion, because no father was acknowledged.  Now she that bore him is honoured because the Divinity maketh him known as his Son.

[Lectio8]
I say that the second birth was more glorious than the first.  For now, the God of majesty proclaimeth himself as his father.  Then, the carpenter Joseph was so accounted.  And although it was the Holy Ghost through whom the Lord was born and baptized, yet the Father, whose voice was heard from heaven, is greater than the father who laboured on earth.  Therefore Joseph the workman on earth was supposed to be the father of the Lord and Saviour.  But God, the true Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, is also a workman, and cannot be excluded from those who work at the carpenter's trade.

[Lectio9]
For he is the artificer who hath wrought the fabric of this world with power not only wondrous but ineffable.  Like a wise architect hath he erected the heavens on high ; he hath laid the foundations of the earth ; he hath constrained the sea within its beaches.  He is the artificer who, in due measure, lowereth the pinnacles of pride and bringeth to the surface the bedrock of humility.  He is the artificer who doth chip off the unnecessary substance in our behaviour, and preserveth whatever is useful.  He is the artificer whose axe, as John the Baptist warneth us, is laid to the root of our tree.  So every tree, which measureth not up to his standard of due growth, is cut down at the roots, and used as fuel for the fire.  But that which measureth up rightly, according to his rule and standard, is squared and fitted by his divine workmanship.
&teDeum
