[Rank]
Sabbato infra Octavam Ascensionis;;Semiduplex;;2;;ex Tempora/Pasc5-4

[Rank1960]
Sabbato post Ascension;;Feria;;1;;vide Tempora/Pasc5-4

[Rule]
ex Tempora/Pasc5-4;
9 Lectiones
Doxology=Asc
Feria Te Deum 

[Lectio1]
Olvasmány szent Péter apostol második levelébõl
!2 Pet 3:1-7
1 Szeretteim, ez már a második levelem, amelyet nektek írok. Arra törekszem, hogy bennük emlékeztesselek benneteket, és így ébren tartsam bennetek a tiszta gondolkodást, 
2 hogy jussanak eszetekbe, amiket a szent próféták elõre megmondtak, továbbá Urunk és Megváltónk parancsa, amelyet apostolaitok közöltek veletek. 
3 Elõször is értsétek meg, hogy az utolsó napokban csúfondáros gúnyolódók fognak fellépni, akik saját vágyaik szerint élnek, 
4 és azt mondják: "No, hol van (Krisztus) megígért eljövetele? Amióta atyáink meghaltak, minden marad úgy, ahogy a teremtés kezdetétõl volt." 
5 De ezek szándékosan tagadják maguk elõtt, hogy az ég õsidõktõl fogva volt, és a föld is azóta, hogy az Isten szavára a vízbõl és a víz által létrejött. 
6 Így pusztult el vízözönnel az akkori világ is. 
7 De a mostani eget és földet ez a szó megmentette, hogy az ítéletnek és az istentelen emberek pusztulásának napjára megmaradjon a tûznek. 

[Responsory1]
@Tempora/Pasc5-4:Responsory1

[Lectio2]
!2 Pet 3:8-13
8 Szeretteim, fõképp egy dolog ne kerülje el figyelmeteket, az, hogy egy nap az Úr elõtt annyi, mint ezer év, ezer év pedig annyi, mint egy nap. 
9 Az Úr nem késik ígéretét teljesíteni, ahogy némelyek késedelmeskedésnek tartják, hogy türelemmel viseltetik irántatok, mert nem akarja, hogy valaki is elvesszen, hanem hogy mindenki bûnbánatot tartson. 
10 Mint a tolvaj, úgy jön el az Úr napja. Ezen a napon az egek nagy robajjal elmúlnak, az elemek a tûz hevétõl felbomlanak, a föld és ami rajta van, elenyészik. 
11 Mivel így minden elpusztul, minden tekintetben szentül és vallásosan kell élnetek, 
12 hiszen várjátok és siettetitek az Isten napjának eljövetelét, amikor is az egek lángba borulnak és felbomlanak, az elemek a tûz hevétõl megolvadnak. 
13 Mi ígérete alapján új eget és új földet várunk, az igazságosság hazáját. 

[Responsory2]
@Tempora/Pasc5-4:Responsory2

[Lectio3]
!2Pet 3:14-18
14 Szeretteim, minthogy ezt várjuk, legyetek rajta, hogy békességben, tisztán és feddhetetlenül találjon benneteket. 
15 Urunk türelmét tartsátok üdvösségnek, ahogy szeretett testvérünk, Pál írta nektek ajándékul kapott bölcsességében 
16 minden olyan levélben, amelyben ezekrõl a dolgokról beszél. Vannak bennük nehezen érthetõ dolgok, ezeket a tanulatlan és állhatatlan emberek kicsavarják a saját vesztükre, akárcsak a többi Írást is. 
17 Szeretteim, mivel már eleve tudtok errõl, vigyázzatok, nehogy a gonoszok tévedése elsodorjon benneteket, és elveszítsétek biztonságotokat. 
18 Gyarapodjatok Urunk és Megváltónk, Jézus Krisztus kegyelmében és ismeretében. Neki legyen dicsõség most és az örökkévalóság napján! Ámen. 

[Responsory3]
@Tempora/Pasc5-4:Responsory3

[Lectio4]
From the Sermons of Pope St Leo the Great.
!2nd on the Ascension.
And so the seen Presence of our Redeemer in the Body was changed for an unseen Presence in the Sacraments, and hearing was given to the Church in place of seeing, that her faith, rightly so called, might be the more victorious and stedfast and that teaching, which the hearts of all her children are called on to hear, is a teaching enlightened by rays from heaven. This faith, strengthened by the Ascension of the Lord, and established by the gift of the Holy Ghost, neither bonds, nor imprisonment, nor exile, nor famine, nor fire, nor savage beasts, nor those forms of death, finewrought in cruelty, wherein they that persecute us are well skilled, have been able to scare. For this faith there have striven throughout the whole world, even unto the out-pouring of their blood, not men only, but women also, not little lads only, but tender maidens. This is the faith which hath cast out devils, healed diseases, raised the dead.

[Lectio5]
Hence even the blessed Apostles themselves, who had been comforted by so many miracles and taught by so many discourses, were sickened by the horrors of their Lord's Passion, and received but doubtfully the assurance of His Resurrection, till after the Lord's Ascension and then fared on so bravely, that all that had been fearful to them before became joyful then. The reason was that they had lifted up all their mind to think of the Godhead of Him Who sitteth at the right~
hand of the Father. They asked no longer for a seen Presence, when their spiritual eye had caught the fact that, even as, when He had come down to earth, He had not left His Father, so now that He was gone up into heaven, He had not left His disciples. So then it was, dearly beloved brethren, that the Son of man more excellently and more sacredly revealed Himself as the Son of God, when He had withdrawn Himself again into that glory which He had with the Father before the world was. In some unspeakable way He began to be more present, as touching His Godhead, when He removed Himself farther from us, as touching His Manhood.

[Lectio6]
Then it was that a better instructed faith began intellectually to approach the idea of a Son equal to the Father, and no longer to need to handle in Christ the bodily Matter, Which is of a nature as touching which He is inferior to the Father since, Its nature still remaining in the glorified Body, the faith of believers was summoned to that place where the Only-Begotten Son, Who is equal to the Father, is felt, not by the application of a bodily hand, but by the effort of a spiritualminded intellect. Hence it was that after His Resurrection, when Mary Magdalene, (in whom was there represented the Person of the whole Church,) wished to handle the Lord, He said " Touch Me not for I am not yet ascended to My Father" that is 'I will no more that thy nearness to Me should be a nearness of body to Body, nor that thine experience of Me should henceforward be one proceeding from fleshly experiment for that, I appoint thee an higher world, I make ready for thee a nobler form of it than this after that I have ascended to My Father, a time will come when thou shalt indeed touch Me, but after a manner more perfect, more real than this, even a time when thou shalt lay hold on that which thou touchest not now, and believe that which thou seest not now.'

[Lectio7]
Evangélium szent Márk Evangélista kõnyvébõl
!Mark 16:14-20
Azon idõben Jézus a tizenegynek jelent meg, amikor egyszer asztalnál ültek. Szemükre vetette hitetlenségüket és keményszívûségüket, hogy nem hittek azoknak, akik feltámadása után látták. És így tovább.
_
Homily by Pope St Gregory the Great.
!Same as before.
"And these signs shall follow them that believe In My Name they shall cast out devils they shall speak with new tongues they shall take up serpents and if they drink any deadly thing, it shall not hurt them they shall lay hands on the sick, and they shall recover." My brethren, these signs do not follow us. Do we, then, not believe Nay. The truth is, these things were needful when the Church was young. That she might grow by the increase of the faithful, she needed to be nourished with miracles. Even so we, when we plant a young tree, continually water and tend it till we see that it hath taken firm root in the earth but when once it hath taken firm root, it can grow of itself. Hence, Paul saith of tongues " Tongues are for a sign, not to them that believe, but~
to them that believe not." (1 Cor. xiv. 22.)

[Lectio8]
We have a deeper matter of thought touching these signs and mighty works. It is the work of the holy Church to do every day spiritually that which the Apostles then did carnally. When her Priests, armed with the power of exorcism, lay their hands upon believers, and command evil spirits to dwell no longer in their souls, what is it they do but cast out devils When Christ's faithful people themselves give up the language of their old life, and speak the wonderful works of God, the glory and power of their Maker, telling of them with all their strength, what is it they do then but speak with new tongues When either the one or the other doth by his exhortation charm the wickedness out of his neighbour's heart, what is it he doth but take up serpents

[Lectio9]
When they hear the voice of temptation inviting to deadly sin, but are not drawn thereby to work iniquity, do they not then drink a deadly thing, and it doth not hurt them As often as they see their neighbour fainting in well-doing, and run to help him with all their might, so that their ensample braceth the feeble life of the waverer, what do they but lay hands on the sick and they recover And indeed, such miracles as these are the greatest miracles, which are spiritual the greatest, for they bring health, not to the dying body, but to the immortal soul.
&teDeum
