[Name]
Commune Unius Martyris Pontificis, Statuit

[Rule]

[Introitus]
!Ecclus 45:30
v. The Lord made a covenant of friendship with him, and made him a prince; that he should possess the dignity of priesthood forever.
!Ps 131:1
Remember, O Lord, David and all his meekness.
&Gloria
v. The Lord made a covenant of friendship with him, and made him a prince; that he should possess the dignity of priesthood forever.

[Oratio]
Be mindful of our weakness, almighty God, and because the burden of our sins weighs heavily upon us, may the glorious intercession of blessed N., Your Martyr and Bishop, sustain us.
$Per Dominum

[Lectio]
Lesson from the Book of St James the Apostle
!James 1:12-18.
Beloved: Blessed is the man who endures temptation; for when he has been tried, he will receive the crown of life which God has promised to those who love Him. Let no man shay when he is tempted that he is tempted by God; for God is no tempter to evil, and He Himself tempts no one. But everyone is tempted by being drawn away and enticed by his own passion. Then when passion has conceived, it brings forth sin; but when sin has matured, it begets death. Therefore, my beloved brethren, do not err. Every good gift and every perfect gift is from above, coming down from the Father of Lights, with Whom there is no change, nor shadow of alteration. Of His own will He has begotten us by the word of truth, that we might be, as it were, the first-fruits of His creatures.

[Graduale]
!Ps 88:21-23
I have found David, My servant, with My holy oil I have anointed him, that My hand may be always with him, and that My arm may make him strong.
V. No enemy shall deceive him, nor shall the wicked afflict him. Alleluia, alleluia.
!Ps 109:4
V. You are a priest forever, according to the order of Melchisedec. Alleluia.

[Tractus]
!Ps 20:3-4
You have granted him his heartÕs desire; You refused not the wish of his lips.
V. For You welcomed him with goodly blessings.
V. You placed on his head a crown of pure gold.

[Evangelium]
Continuation of the Holy Gospel according to Luke
!Luke 14:26-33.
At that time, Jesus said to the crowds, If anyone comes to Me and does not hate his father and mother, and wife and children, and brothers and sisters, yes, and even his own life, he cannot be My disciple. And he who does not carry his cross and follow Me, cannot be My disciple. For which of you, wishing to build a tower, does not sit down first and calculate the outlays that are necessary, whether he has the means to complete it? Lest, after he has laid the foundation and is not able to finish, all who behold begin to mock him, saying, ‘This man began to build and was not able to finish!’ Or what king setting out to engage in battle with another king, does not sit down first and consider whether he is able with ten thousand men to meet him who with twenty thousand is coming against him? Or else, whilst the other is yet at a distance, he sends a delegation and asks the terms of peace. So, therefore, every one of you who does not renounce all that he possesses, cannot be My disciple.

[Offertorium]
!Ps 88:25
My faithfulness and My kindness shall be with him, and through My name shall his horn be exalted.

[Secreta]
O Lord, graciously accept, through the merits of Your blessed Martyr and Bishop N., the sacrificial gifts dedicated to You, and grant they may prove to be for us a lasting help.
$Per Dominum

[Communio]
!Ps 88:36-38.
Once, by My holiness, have I sworn; his posterity shall continue forever; and his throne shall be like the sun before Me; like the moon, which remains forever, a faithful witness in the sky.

[Postcommunio]
Refreshed by partaking of the sacred gift, we beseech You, O Lord our God, that we may enjoy the benefits of the rite we perform through the intercession of blessed N., Your Martyr and Bishop.
$Per Dominum
