[Name]
Commune Summorum Pontificum; Si diligis

[Rule]
Prefatio=Apostolis

[Introitus]
!John 21:15-17
v. If thou lovest me, Simon Peter, feed my lambs, feed my sheep. Allelúja,~
allelúja.
!Ps 29:2
v.  I will extol thee, O Lord, for thou hast upheld me: and hast not made my enemies to rejoice over me.
&Gloria
v. If thou lovest me, Simon Peter, feed my lambs, feed my sheep. Allelúja,~
allelúja.

[Oratio]
Look forgivingly on thy flock, Eternal Shepherd, and keep it in thy constant protection, by the intercession of blessed N. thy (Martyr and) Sovereign Pontiff, whom thou didst constitute Shepherd of the whole Church. 
$Per Dominum

[Oratio1]
O God, who dost rescue thy Church, built on the solid Apostolic rock, from terror of the gates of hell, grant we pray, that through the intercession of blessed N. (Thy martyr and) Supreme Pontiff, it may continue in thy truth and may be fortified by continued security.
$Per Dominum

[Lectio]
Lesson from the first letter of St Peter the Apostle
!1 Pet 5:1-4; 5:10-11.
Dearly beloved brethren: The ancients therefore that are among you, I beseech, who am myself also an ancient, and a witness of the sufferings of Christ: as also a partaker of that glory which is to be revealed in time to come: Feed the flock of God which is among you, taking care of it, not by constraint, but willingly, according to God: not for filthy lucre's sake, but voluntarily: Neither as lording it over the clergy, but being made a pattern of the flock from the heart. And when the prince of pastors shall appear, you shall receive a never fading crown of glory. But the God of all grace, who hath called us into his eternal glory in Christ Jesus, after you have suffered a little, will himself perfect you, and confirm you, and establish you. To him be glory and empire for ever and ever. Amen. 
 
[Graduale]
Allelúja, allelúja
!Matt 16:18
v.  And I say to thee: That thou art Peter; and upon this rock I will build My Church.
!Ps 44:17-18.
v. Thou shalt make them princes over all the earth. They shall remember thy name throughout all generations. Therefore shall people praise thee for ever; yea, for ever and ever. Allelúja.

[Evangelium]
Continuation ++ of the Holy Gospel according to Matthew
!Matt 16:13-19
v.  In that time: Jesus came into the quarters of Caesarea Philippi: and he asked his disciples, saying: Whom do men say that the Son of man is? But they said: Some John the Baptist, and other some Elias, and others Jeremias, or one of the prophets. Jesus saith to them: But whom do you say that I am? Simon Peter answered and said: Thou art Christ, the Son of the living God. And Jesus answering, said to him: Blessed art thou, Simon Bar-Jona: because flesh and blood hath not revealed it to thee, but my Father who is in heaven. And I say to thee: That thou art Peter; and upon this rock I will build My Church, and the gates of hell shall not prevail against it. And I will give to thee the keys of the kingdom of heaven. And whatsoever thou shalt bind upon earth, it shall be bound also in heaven: and whatsoever thou shalt loose upon earth, it shall be loosed also in heaven. 

[Offertorium]
!Jer 1:9-10
v. Behold I have given my words in thy mouth: Lo, I have set thee over the nations, and over the kingdoms, to root up, and pull down, and to waste, and to destroy, and to build, and to plant.  Allelúja.

[Secreta]
By the offered gifts we beseech thee, O Lord, that thou kindly enlighten thy Church, so that thy flock may everywhere progress and prosper, and thy shepherds, under thy guidance may be pleasing to thy name.
$Per Dominum

[Secreta1]
In thy kindness, O Lord, receive the gifts which we have joyfully offered thee, and grant through the intercession of blessed N., that thy Church may rejoice in soundness of faith, and ever be gladdened by days of peacefulness. 
$Per Dominum

[Communio]
!Matt 16:18
v.  Thou art Peter; and upon this rock I will build My Church, and the gates of hell shall not prevail against it. Allelúja.

[Postcommunio]
Being appeased, O Lord, guide thy Church, which has been nourished by holy refreshment, that under thy direction and powerful rule it may receive increase of liberty and may continue in religious integrity.
$Per Dominum

[Postcommunio1]
Multiply, we beseech thee, O Lord, in thy Church the spirit of grace which tho hast bestowed, that by intercession of blessed N. (Thy martyr and) Supreme Pontiff, the obedience of the flock shall not fail the shepherd, nor the care of the shepherd be wanting to the flock.
$Per Dominum

