[Name]
Commune confessoris doctoris Paschal time; In medio

[Rule]
Gloria

[Introitus]
!Sir 15:5
v. And in the midst of the church she shall open his mouth, and shall fill him with the spirit of wisdom and understanding, and shall clothe him with a robe of glory. Allelúja, allelúja.
!Ps 91:2
v. It is good to give praise to the Lord: and to sing to thy name, O most High.
&Gloria
v. And in the midst of the church she shall open his mouth, and shall fill him with the spirit of wisdom and understanding, and shall clothe him with a robe of glory.  Allelúja, allelúja.

[Oratio]
O God, who didst give blessed N. to be thy people minister in eternal salvation; grant, we pray, that that we who have him for teacher of life here on earth, may also deserve now that he is in heaven, to have him for an advocate.
$Per Dominum.

[Lectio]
Lesson from the second letter of St. Paul the Apostle to Timothy
!2 Tim 4:1-8
v.  Dearly beloved: I charge thee, before God and Jesus Christ, who shall judge the living and the dead, by his coming, and his kingdom: Preach the word: be instant in season, out of season: reprove, entreat, rebuke in all patience and doctrine. For there shall be a time, when they will not endure sound doctrine; but, according to their own desires, they will heap to themselves teachers, having itching ears: And will indeed turn away their hearing from the truth, but will be turned unto fables. But be thou vigilant, labour in all things, do the work of an evangelist, fulfill thy ministry. Be sober. For I am even now ready to be sacrificed: and the time of my dissolution is at hand. I have fought a good fight, I have finished my course, I have kept the faith. As to the rest, there is laid up for me a crown of justice, which the Lord the just judge will render to me in that day: and not only to me, but to them also that love his coming.

[Graduale]
Allelúja, allelúja.
!Eccli 45:9
The Lord loved him and decorated him: He hath clothed him in a stole of glory. 
!Osee 14:6. 
The just man shall flourish like the lily: and will bear fruit in eternity before the Lord. Allelúja.

[Evangelium]
Continuation ++ of the Holy Gospel according to Matthew
!Matt 5:13-19
v. In that time Jesus said to His disciples: You are the salt of the earth. But if the salt lose its savour, wherewith shall it be salted? It is good for nothing any more but to be cast out, and to be trodden on by men. You are the light of the world. A city seated on a mountain cannot be hid. Neither do men light a candle and put it under a bushel, but upon a candlestick, that it may shine to all that are in the house. So let your light shine before men, that they may see your good works, and glorify your Father who is in heaven. Do not think that I am come to destroy the law, or the prophets. I am not come to destroy, but to fulfill. For amen I say unto you, till heaven and earth pass, one jot, or one tittle shall not pass of the law, till all be fulfilled. He therefore that shall break one of these least commandments, and shall so teach men, shall be called the least in the kingdom of heaven. But he that shall do and teach, he shall be called great in the kingdom of heaven.

[Offertorium]
!Ps 91:13
v. The just shall flourish like the palm tree: he shall grow up like the cedar of Libanus. Allelúja.

[Secreta]
May the pious prayer of holy N. thy Confessor and illustrious Doctor be not wanting to us, O Lord, but make our offerings acceptable to thee and ever win for us thy mercy.
$Per Dominum.

[Communio]
!Luke 12:42
v. The faithful and wise steward, whom his lord setteth over his family: to give them their measure of wheat in due season. Allelúja.

[Postcommunio] Pro Doctore non Pontifice.
May blessed N. thy Confessor and illustrious Doctor intercede for us, O Lord, that this thy sacrifice may obtain for us salvation,
$Per Dominum

[Lectio1]
Lesson from the book of Ecclesiasticus
!Sir 39:6-14
v. He will give his heart to resort early to the Lord that made him, and he will pray in the sight of the most High. He will open his mouth in prayer, and will make supplication for his sins. For if it shall please the great Lord, he will fill him with the spirit of understanding: And he will pour forth the words of his wisdom as showers, and in his prayer he will confess to the Lord. And he shall direct his counsel, and his knowledge, and in his secrets shall he meditate. He shall show forth the discipline he hath learned, and shall glory in the law of the covenant of the Lord. Many shall praise his wisdom, and it shall never be forgotten. The memory of him shall not depart away, and his name shall be in request from generation to generation. Nations shall declare his wisdom, and the church shall show forth his praise.
