[Name]
Commune Virginum tantum; Dilexisti

[Rule]
Prefatio=Virginis

[Introitus]
!Ps 44:8
v. Thou hast loved justice, and hated iniquity: therefore God, thy God, hath anointed thee with the oil of gladness above thy fellows.
!Ps 44:2
v. My heart hath uttered a good word I speak my works to the king; 
&Gloria
v. Thou hast loved justice, and hated iniquity: therefore God, thy God, hath anointed thee with the oil of gladness above thy fellows.

[Oratio]
Hear us, O God, our Saviour, that as we are gladdened by the festival of blessed N. thy virgin, so we may learn from it piety and devotion.
$Per Dominum

[Lectio]
Lesson from the second letter of St. Paul the Apostle to the Corinthians
!2 Cor 10:17-18; 11:1-2
v. Brothers: He that glorieth, let him glory in the Lord. For not he who commendeth himself, is approved, but he, whom God commendeth. Would to God you could bear with some little of my folly: but do bear with me. For I am jealous of you with the jealousy of God. For I have espoused you to one husband that I may present you as a chaste virgin to Christ.

[Graduale]
!Ps 44:5
v. With thy comeliness and thy beauty set out, proceed prosperously, and reign.
V. Because of truth and meekness and justice: and thy right hand shall conduct thee wonderfully. Alleluja, alleluja.
!Ps 44:15-16
v. After her shall virgins be brought to the king: They shall be brought with gladness and rejoicing: Alleluja.

[Tractus]
!Ps 44:5
v.  With thy comeliness and thy beauty set out, proceed prosperously, and reign. Because of truth and meekness and justice: and thy right hand shall conduct thee wonderfully.
!Ps 44:11-12
v.  Hearken, O daughter, and see, and incline thy ear:  And the king shall greatly desire thy beauty; 
!Ps 44:13; 44:10
v. All the rich among the people, shall entreat thy countenance. the daughters of kings have delighted thee in thy glory. 
!Ps 44:15-16
v.  After her shall virgins be brought to the king: her neighbours shall be brought to thee. They shall be brought with gladness and rejoicing: they shall be brought into the temple of the king.

[GradualeP]
Allelúia, allelúja
!Ps 44:15-16
After her shall virgins be brought to the king: They shall be brought with gladness and rejoicing: Alleluja.
!Ps 44:5
V. With thy comeliness and thy beauty set out, proceed prosperously, and reign. Allelúja.

[Evangelium]
Continuation ++ of the Holy Gospel according to Matthew
!Matt 25:1-13
v.  In that time Jesus said to the people: Then shall the kingdom of heaven be like to ten virgins, who taking their lamps went out to meet the bridegroom and the bride. And five of them were foolish, and five wise. But the five foolish, having taken their lamps, did not take oil with them: But the wise took oil in their vessels with the lamps. And the bridegroom tarrying, they all slumbered and slept. And at midnight there was a cry made: Behold the bridegroom cometh, go ye forth to meet him. Then all those virgins arose and trimmed their lamps. And the foolish said to the wise: Give us of your oil, for our lamps are gone out. The wise answered, saying: Lest perhaps there be not enough for us and for you, go ye rather to them that sell, and buy for yourselves. Now whilst they went to buy, the bridegroom came: and they that were ready, went in with him to the marriage, and the door was shut. But at last came also the other virgins, saying: Lord, Lord, open to us. But he answering said: Amen I say to you, I know you not. Watch ye therefore, because you know not the day nor the hour.

[Offertorium]
!Ps 44:10
v. The daughters of kings have delighted thee in thy glory. The queen stood on thy right hand, in gilded clothing; surrounded with variety.

[Secreta]
May the service of thy holy people be acceptable to Thee, O Lord, and honorable to thy saints, through whose merits we know that we have received help in trouble.
$Per Dominum

[Communio]
!Matt 25:4; 25:6
v. The five wise virgins took oil in their vessels with the lamps. And at midnight there was a cry made: Behold the bridegroom cometh, go ye forth to meet him.

[Postcommunio]
Thou hast fed thy servants, O Lord, with the holy gifts; comfort us ever we pray, by her intercession whose festival we celebrate.
$Per Dominum
