[Officium]
Missa Votiva in Creatione et Coronatione Papae et in die anniversarii

[Missa]
Statuit (altera)

[Oratio]
O God, shepherd and ruler of all the faithful, look with favor upon Your servant N.p, whom You willed to designate shepherd of Your Church; grant him, we beseech You, that by word and example he may so benefit those in his charge, that together with the flock committed to his care, he may attain life everlasting.
$Per Dominum

[Lectio]
Lesson from the first letter of St Peter the Apostle
!1 Pet 1:1-7
Peter, an apostle of Jesus Christ, to the sojourners of the Dispersion in Pontus, Galatia, Cappadocia, Asia and Bithynia, chosen unto the sanctification of the Spirit according to the foreknowledge of God the Father, unto obedience to Jesus Christ and the sprinkling of His blood: grace and peace be given you in abundance. Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, Who according to His great mercy has begotten us again, through the Resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead, unto a living hope, unto an incorruptible inheritance - undefiled and unfading, reserved for you in heaven. By the power of God you are guarded through faith for salvation, which is ready to be revealed in the last time. Over this you rejoice; though now for a little while, if need be, you are made sorrowful by various trials, that the temper of your faith - more precious by far than gold which is tried by fire - may be found unto praise and glory and honor at the revelation of Jesus Christ our Lord.

[Graduale]
!Ps 106:32; 106:31
v. And let them exalt him in the church of the people: and praise him in the chair of the ancients.
V. Let the mercies of the Lord give glory to him, and his wonderful works to the children of men. Allelúja, allelúja.
!Matt 16:18
And I say to thee: That thou art Peter; and upon this rock I will build My Church. Allelúja.

[GradualeP]
Alleluia, alleluia.
!Ps. 106:8
V. Let them give thanks to the Lord for His kindness and His wondrous deeds to the children of men. Alleluia.
!Matt 16:18
V. You are Peter, and upon this rock I will build My Church. Alleluia.

[Tractus]
!Matt 16:18-19
You are Peter, and upon this rock I will build My Church.
V. And the gates of hell shall not prevail against it; and I will give you the keys of the kingdom of heaven.
V. Whatever you shall bind on earth shall be bound in heaven.
V. And whatever you shall loose on earth shall be loosed in heaven.

[Evangelium]
Continuation ++ of the Holy Gospel according to Matthew
!Matt 16:13-19
v. In that time: Jesus came into the quarters of Caesarea Philippi: and he asked his disciples, saying: Whom do men say that the Son of man is? But they said: Some John the Baptist, and other some Elias, and others Jeremias, or one of the prophets. Jesus saith to them: But whom do you say that I am? Simon Peter answered and said: Thou art Christ, the Son of the living God. And Jesus answering, said to him: Blessed art thou, Simon Bar-Jona: because flesh and blood hath not revealed it to thee, but my Father who is in heaven. And I say to thee: That thou art Peter; and upon this rock I will build My Church, and the gates of hell shall not prevail against it. And I will give to thee the keys of the kingdom of heaven. And whatsoever thou shalt bind upon earth, it shall be bound also in heaven: and whatsoever thou shalt loose upon earth, it shall be loosed also in heaven.

[Offertorium]
!Matt 16:18-19
You are Peter, and upon this rock I will build My Church, and the gates of hell shall not prevail against it; and I will give you the keys of the kingdom of heaven (Alleluia.)

[Secreta]
Be appeased, O Lord, we beseech You, by the gifts we offer, and by Your continual protection direct Your servant N.p, whom You willed to be shepherd of Your Church.
$Per Dominum

[Communio]
!Matt 16:18
v. Thou art Peter; and upon this rock I will build My Church, and the gates of hell shall not prevail against it. (Allelúja.)

[Postcommunio]
May this reception of the divine sacrament, we beseech You, O Lord, be our protection, and may it safeguard and shield at all times Your servant N.p, whom You willed to rule over Your Church as shepherd, and with him, the flock entrusted to his care.
$Per Dominum
