@Tempora/Pent04-0

[Lectio2]
!1 Sam 17:8-12
8 And standing he cried out to the bands of Israel, and said to them: Why are you come out prepared to fight? am not I a Philistine, and you the servants of Saul? Choose out a man of you, and let him come down and fight hand to hand.
9 If he be able to fight with me, and kill me, we will be servants to you: but if I prevail against him, and kill him, you shall be servants, and shall serve us.
10 And the Philistine said: I have defied the bands of Israel this day: Give me a man, and let him fight with me hand to hand.
11 And Saul and all the Israelites hearing these words of the Philistine were dismayed, and greatly afraid.
12 Now David was the son of that Ephrathite of Bethlehem Juda before mentioned, whose name was Isai, who had eight sons, and was an old man in the days of Saul, and of great age among men.

[Lectio3]
!1 Sam 17:13-20
13 And his three eldest sons followed Saul to the battle: and the names of his three sons that went to the battle, were Eliab the firstborn, and the second Abinadab, and the third Samma.
14 But David was the youngest. So the three eldest having followed Saul,
15 David went, and returned from Saul, to feed his father's flock at Bethlehem.
16 Now the Philistine came out morning and evening, and presented himself forty days.
17 And Isai said to David his son: Take for thy brethren an ephi of frumenty, and these ten loaves, and run to the camp to thy brethren. 
18 And carry these ten little cheeses to the tribune: and go see thy brethren, if they are well: and learn with whom they are placed. 
19 But Saul, and they, and all the children of Israel were in the valley of Terebinth fighting against the Philistines. 
20 David therefore arose in the morning, and gave the charge of the flock to the keeper: and went away loaded as Isai had commanded him.

[Lectio8]
O fear, then, for the ship where wisdom steereth, false teaching is not known, and faith swelleth the sails. How shall she be troubled, whose Lord is Himself the Church's sure Foundation It is where faith is weak that there is fear where love is perfect, there there is safety. To many it is commanded to loose their nets, but to Peter only to " Launch out into the deep," that is, into the depths of doctrine. What indeed is there so deep, as to gaze upon the depth of all riches, to recognise the Son of God, and to take up the confession of His Divine generation This is a thing which the mind is not able to grasp by the searchings of man's reason, but which is embraced by an hearty faith.

[Lectio9]
Nor albeit, it is not given unto me to know how He was born, yet that born He was, I may not be ignorant. What the order of His generation was, I know not, but the Source of His generation I acknowledge. None hath beheld the Begetting of the Son of God by the Father, but the Church hath stood by to hear the Father testify that this is His beloved Son. (Luke iii. 22.) If we believe not God, whom shall we believe For whatsoever we believe cometh either by sight or by hearing sight is oftentimes deceived, but "faith cometh by hearing." (Rom. x. 17.)
&teDeum
