[Rank]
S. Raphaelis Archangeli;;Duplex majus;;4;;ex Sancti/05-08

[Rule]
ex C1;
9 lectiones
Psalmi Dominica
Antiphonas horas
Psalm5 Vespera=116
Psalm5 Vespera3=137
Horas1960 Feria

[Ant Vespera]
v. The Angel Raphael was sent * unto Tobias and Sara to heal them.
The Angel went in * unto Tobias, and said : Joy be ever with thee.
Be of good courage, Tobias, * for it is nigh at hand that God shall heal thee.
Bless ye the God of Heaven, and confess Him before all living, for He hath had mercy upon you.
Peace be unto you, * fear not, bless ye God, and give praise to Him.

[Capitulum Vespera]
!Tob 12:12
v. Tudjátok meg hát, hogy amikor imádkoztatok, te meg Sára, kéréseteket az Úr fölséges színe elé vittem és felolvastam. Éppen úgy azt is, hogy eltemetted a halottakat. 
$Deo gratias

[Hymnus Vespera]
Christ, of the angels praise and adoration,
Father and Saviour thou, of every nation,
Graciously grant us all to gain a station,
Where Thou art reigning.
_
Angel Physician, health on man bestowing,
Raphael send us from the skies all glowing,
All sickness curing, wisest counsel showing
In doubt and danger.
_
May the fair Mother of the Light be o’er us,
Virgin of peace, with all the angel chorus,
And may the heavenly army go before us,
Guiding and guarding.
_
O May the Godhead, endless bliss possessing,
Father, Son, Spirit, grant to us this blessing;
All His creation joins His praise confessing,
Now and forever.
Ámen.

[Ant 1]
I am the Angel Raphael * who stand before the Lord; but bless ye God, and tell of~
all His wondrous works.

[Oratio]
O God, Who didst give thy blessed Archangel Raphael unto thy servant Tobias to~
be his fellow wayfarer, grant unto us, thy servants, that the same may ever keep~
and shield us, help and defend us.
$Per Dominum

[Invit]
The Lord, he is the King of the Archangels, * O come, let us worship him.

[Hymnus Matutinum]
@Sancti/10-24:Hymnus Vespera

[Ant Matutinum]
When Tobias went in, he found a young man with his loins girded, and as it were ready to set forth, and knowing not that it was an Angel, he saluted him;;8
The Angel Raphael hid himself, and said : I am Azarias, the son of Ananias the Great;;10
I will bring thy son safely into the land of the Medes, and bring him back safely unto thee again. Alleluia;;14
V. There was given unto the Angel much incense.
R. That he should offer it upon the golden altar, which is before the presence of the Lord.
And the Angel said, Take the fish by the gill, and draw him out of the water;;18
Tell me, I pray thee, brother Azarias, to what use is that which thou hast bidden me keep of the fish;;23
The gall is a healing to the eyes, but the virtue of the heart and the liver putteth the power of the devil to flight;;33
V. And the smoke of the incense ascended up before the Lord
R. Out of the Angel's hand.
Here is Sara the daughter of Raguel, who shall be given unto thee to wife, and all her substance with her;;95
She hath had seven husbands, who were all strangled by an evil spirit; I am afraid lest the like should befall me;;96
Spend three days in prayer with thy wife, that thou mayest obtain the blessing of sons, in the seed of Abraham;;102
V. The Angel Raphael took hold on the evil spirit.
R. And drove him away into the desert of Upper Egypt.

[Lectio1]
From the Book of Tobias
!Tob 12:1-4
1 Amikor a lakodalom elmúlt, Tobit hívatta a fiát, Tóbiást, és ezt mondta neki: "Fiam, legyen gondod rá, hogy kísérõdnek megadd a bérét, sõt toldd is meg a kialkudott bért." 
2 Az megkérdezte: "Apám, mennyit adjak a szolgálatáért? 
3 Magam nem sajnálnám neki adni annak a felét, amit hoztam. Jó egészségben és baj nélkül visszahozott, meggyógyította feleségemet, elhozta nekem a pénzt, és téged is meggyógyított. Mivel hálálhatjuk ezt meg neki?" 
4 Tobit így szólt: "Valóban õt illeti a fele annak, amit hoztál." 

[Responsory1]
R. At that time the prayers of them twain were heard in the presence of the~
glory of the Most High God
* And holy Raphael, the Angel of the Lord, was sent to heal the twain of them,~
whose prayers had been uttered at one time in the presence of the Lord.
V. Tobias and Sara were in tribulation, and began to pray with tears.
R. And holy Raphael, the Angel of the Lord, was sent to heal the twain of them,~
whose prayers had been uttered at one time in the presence of the Lord.

[Lectio2]
!Tob 12:5-13
5 Akkor Tóbiás hívatta útitársát, és így szólt hozzá: "Fogadd el a felét annak, amit hoztál, azért, amit tettél, aztán menj békével!" 
6 Akkor Ráfael félrehívta kettõjüket, és így szólt hozzájuk: "Dicsõítsétek Istent minden élõlény elõtt, és mondjatok neki köszönetet azért, amit veletek tett. Dicsõítsétek és magasztaljátok nevét. Mindenki elõtt hirdessétek az Isten tetteit, mert méltó rá, s ne szûnjetek meg köszönetet mondani neki. 
7 A király titkait meg kell õrizni. Isten tetteit azonban föl kell fedni és hirdetni kell. Tegyetek jót, és akkor nem árthat nektek a gonosz. 
8 Többet ér a böjt imádsággal meg az alamizsna igazságossággal párosulva, mint a nagy vagyon, ha jogtalansággal jár együtt. Jobb alamizsnát adni, mint aranyat gyûjteni. 
9 Mert az alamizsna megment a haláltól, és megtisztít minden bûntõl. Akik jótékonykodnak, azok sokáig élnek. 
10 De akik vétkeznek és rosszat tesznek, azok ellenségei saját életüknek. 
11 Megmondom nektek a színtiszta igazságot és nem titkolok el semmit sem elõttetek. Mondtam már nektek, hogy jó elhallgatni a király titkát, Isten tetteit azonban ki kell nyilvánítani. 
12 Tudjátok meg hát, hogy amikor imádkoztatok, te meg Sára, kéréseteket az Úr fölséges színe elé vittem és felolvastam. Éppen úgy azt is, hogy eltemetted a halottakat. 
13 Amikor nem restellted, hogy fölkelj és abbahagyd az evést, hanem elmentél és eltemetted a halottat, megbízást kaptam, hogy próbára tegyem a hitedet. 

[Responsory2]
R. When Tobias went forth he found a very well-favoured young man standing with~
his loins girded, and as it were ready to set forth, and he saluted him and said
* Whence art thou, O good young man?
V. And he knew not that it was an Angel of the Lord, and saluted him, and said :
R. Whence art thou, O good young man?

[Lectio3]
!Tob 12:14-22
14 Ugyanakkor elküldött Isten, hogy meggyógyítsalak, és a menyedet is, Sárát. 
15 Ráfael vagyok, egy a hét angyal közül, aki mindig készen áll arra, hogy az Úr fölséges színe elé lépjen." 
16 Erre mindkettõjüket félelem fogta el, és arcra borultak, mert nagyon féltek. 
17 (Az angyal) azonban így szólt hozzájuk: "Ne féljetek! Békesség nektek! Magasztaljátok Istent, örökké. 
18 Nem magamtól jöttem, hanem Istenünk akaratából. Ezért õt dicsõítsétek minden áldott nap, mert õt illeti a köszönet. 
19 Azt hittétek, enni láttok, pedig az csak látszat volt. 
20 Dicsõítsétek ezért az Urat a földön, és adjatok hálát Istennek. Most visszatérek ahhoz, aki küldött. Írjatok le mindent, ami történt!" Ezzel fölemelkedett. 
21 Amikor fölkeltek, már nem látták többé. Magasztalták az Istent dicsõítõ énekkel, és megköszönték neki, hogy ilyen csodát tett, hogy az Úr egyik angyala megjelent. 

[Responsory3]
R. The Angel went in unto Tobias and saluted him and said : Joy be ever with~
thee
* Be of good courage, for it is at hand that God should heal thee.
V. And Tobias answered and said : What joy shall I have while I sit in darkness,~
and see not the light of heaven?
R. Be of good courage, for it is at hand that God should heal thee.
&Gloria
R. Be of good courage, for it is at hand that God should heal thee.

[Lectio4]
From the Sermons of St Austin, Bishop (of Hippo.)
!Serm. i. in Bom. 15, B. Tod. 226th for the Season.
Raphael means God's healing, and we should observe that the way out of evil lies through three blessing bestowed on us through Raphael's healing. For Raphael the Healer leads us forth from weakness of soul and brings us into the bitterness of contrition; whence in the book of Tobit Raphael says: When thou enterest into thy house, anoint his eyes with gall. He did so, and he saw. Why could not Raphael do this himself?  Because an Angel does not bestow compunction, but he shows the way to it. By gall, the bitterness of contrition is to be understood,for it heals the inner eyes of the mind. The Psalmist says: He healeth those that are broken in heart. This is the best eye salve. In the second chapter of the Book of Judges it is written that an angel came up to the place of the weepers, and said to the people: I made you to go up out of Egypt; I have done all of these good things for you: and all the people wept, so that the place was called the Place of the Weepers. Dearly beloved, all day long the Angels are telling us of God's blessings, and recalling them to our minds: Who hath created thee ? Who hath redeemed thee ? What hast thou done ? Whom hast thou offended ?  When thou considerest this, thine only remedy is to weep.   

[Responsory4]
R. Tobias asked the Angel : Of what house, or of what tribe, art thou? And he~
answered and said :
* I am Azarias, the son of Ananias the Great
V. Dost thou seek for a tribe or family, or an hired man to go with thy son? But~
be not careful overmuch.
R. I am Azarias, the son of Ananias the Great.

[Lectio5]
Secondly, Raphael brings us forth from our slavery to the devil, by recalling
Christ's Passion to our mind. There is a figure of the Passion in the sixth chapter of Tobit, where it is said that if a piece of the heart is put on the embers, it's smoke will drive out all knids of devils. It is said in the eighth chapter of Tobit that Tobias put a piece of the heart on the embers, and Raphael bound the devil in the utmost parts of Egypt. What does this mean? Was Raphael unable to bind the devil unless the heart was put on the embers ? Surely a fish's heart could not give such strength to an Angel ? By no means ! It would be impossible unless there was a mystery in this. We are to understand that nothing so frees us from the devil's slavery as the Passion of Christ, which issued from the root of his heart, or of his love. For the heart is the fountain, or hot centre, of all life. Therefore if thou puttest the heart of Christ, that is the Passion, that he underwent , issuing from the root of charity and the fountain of heat, on the embers, that is, on the flame of memory: then immediately the devil will be bound, and he will be unable to hurt thee.

[Responsory5]
R. Tobias went out to wash his feet, and behold a great fish went out, and would~
have devoured him; and he was sore afraid, and cried out with a loud voice, and~
said : O sir, he assaileth me. And the Angel said unto him : Take him by his~
gill, and draw him unto thee
* Open this fish, and take his heart, and his liver, and his gall, and put them~
up safely by thee, for they are useful and needful for drugs.
V. And Tobias drew the fish unto the dry ground, and it began to gasp at his~
feet, and the Angel said unto him
R. Open this fish, and take his heart, and his liver, and his gall, and put them~
safely by thee, for they are useful and needful for drugs.

[Lectio6]
Thirdly Raphael delivers us from God's displeasure, which we incur by transgressing against God; he does this by leading us to instant prayer: and this is what Raphael said to Tobit in the twelfth chapter: When thou didst pray with tears, I did bring your prayers before the Lord. For the Angels reconcile us to God, as far as they are able. The devils are accusers before God, but the angels excuse us, when they offer our prayers, and when they urge us to pray devoutly. In the eighth chapter of the Revelation of S. John it is said: The smoke of the incense ascended up before God out of the Angels hand. This sweet smelling incense is the prayer of the saints. Does thou wish to appease God, whom thou hast offended ? Then pray devoutly. They offer thy prayer, so that they may reconcile thee to God. It is said in the Gospel of S. Luke, that Christ being in an agony, prayed more ernestly, and there appeared an Angel of the Lord  strengthing him. And all of this was done for our sake: for he had no need of strengthing, but it was to show that the Angels willingly assist those who pray devoutly, and help and strengthen them, and bring their prayers before God.  

[Responsory6]
R. The Angel Raphael said unto Tobias : When thou enterest into thine house,~
straightway worship the Lord thy God; and when thou hast given thanks unto Him,~
draw near unto thy father and kiss him
* And forthwith smear upon his eyes some of the gall of the fish which thou~
carriest with thee; for know that his eyes will straightway be opened, and thy~
father shall see the light of heaven, and shall behold thee, and be glad.
V. Take with thee some of the gall of the fish, for it will be needful.
R. And forthwith smear upon his eyes some of the gall of the fish which thou~
carriest with thee; for know that his eyes will straightway be opened, and thy~
father shall see the light of heaven, and shall behold thee, and be glad.
&Gloria
R. And forthwith smear upon his eyes some of the gall of the fish which thou~
carriest with thee; for know that his eyes will straightway be opened, and thy~
father shall see the light of heaven, and shall behold thee, and be glad.

[Lectio7]
From the Holy Gospel according to John
!John 5:1-4
At that time : There was a feast of the Jews, and Jesus went up to Jerusalem.~
And so on.
_
Homily by S. John Chrystostom 
!( hom. 35 or 36 on John)  
What manner of mystery is this ? What does it reveal ? for it is not written without a purpose : but the future is foretold in figure and similtude lest the unexpected occurrence of a wondrous event should in any way disturb the faith of the hearers. What, then is here described ? In the future a baptism was to be given, full of power and of the greatest grace, a baptism that would wash away all sin, that would restore life to dead men. These facts then are depicted figuratively, in the pool and in all the other circumstances.
And first in this figure the water is set forth, which washes away stains of the body, and those things that are not actually dirty, though they were thought to be so, such as coming in contact witha corpse, or a leper, and such like: it is to be seen that many things under the old law are cleansed by water, in accordance with this idea. 

[Responsory7]
R. The Angel Raphael said : Bless ye the God of heaven, and confess Him before~
all living
* For He hath had mercy upon you.
V. Bless Him, and praise Him, and tell of all His marvellous works
R. For He hath had mercy upon you.

[Lectio8]
But let us now return to the subject. First defilements of the body are washed out, and then God heals various infirmities by means of water. For because God would bring us nearer to the grace of baptism, he not only cleanses defilements but heals diseases. For those figures which come nearest to the reality, in baptism, the Passion, and others are seen more clearly than the older ones. For it is the same with those who form a king's bodyguard : they are more splendidly apparelled than those at the other end of his equipage. And the angel came down and troubled the water, and imbued it with healing power; so that the Jews might learn that the Lord of Angels had far more power to heal all the diseases of the soul. But just as here it was not simply the natural property of the water that healed, (otherwise it would have always have done so) but it happened through the work of the Angel : so it is not simply water that works on us, but after the water has received the grace of the Spirit, then it looses us from all sin.

[Responsory8]
R. It is time for me to return unto Him That sent me, saith the Angel Raphael
* But bless ye the Lord, and tell of all His marvellous works.
V. Confess Him before all living, for He hath had mercy upon you.
R. Bless ye the Lord, and tell of all His marvellous works.
&Gloria
R. Bless ye the Lord, and tell of all His marvellous works.

[Lectio9]
Around this pool lay a great multitude of impotent folk, of blind, halt, withered, waiting for the moving of the water. But then those who wished for healing were prevented by infirmity from receiving it, while now everyone is able to come forward. For the Angel does not trouble the water, but the Lord of Angels brings all things to come to pass. We may no longer say, While I am coming, another steppeth down before me. But even should the whole world come, the grace would not be used up, neither would its power nor effectual working come to an end. For as the sun's rays shine forth each day without burning out, and as they spread abroad without losing any of their light : far less is the operation of the Spirit diminished by the multitudes who receive it. Now this miracle took place so that as men learned that could heal bodily diseases, and as they become accustomed to this fact over a period of time : so they might they the more readily believe that it could also heal diseases of the soul. 
&teDeum

[Ant Laudes]
The Angel Raphael was sent * unto Tobias and Sara to heal them.
The Angel went in * unto Tobias, and said : Joy be ever with thee.
Be of good courage, Tobias, * for it is nigh at hand that God shall heal thee.
Bless ye the God of Heaven, and confess Him before all living, for He hath had mercy upon you.
Peace be unto you, * fear not, bless ye God, and give praise to Him.

[Hymnus Laudes]
Angel of health, may Raphael lighten o'er us,
To every sick-bed speed his healing flight,
In times of doubt direct the way before us,
And through life's mazes guide our steps aright.
_
The Virgin harbinger of peace supernal,
Mother of Light, with all the Angelic train,
Heaven's glittering host, court of the King Eternal,
All saints be with us, till that bliss we gain.
_
Be this by thy thrice holy Godhead granted,
Father, and Son, and Spirit ever blest,
Whose glory by the Angel host is chanted,
Whose Name by all the universe confest.
Ámen.

[Ant 2]
I am the Angel Raphael * who stand before the Lord; but bless ye God, and tell~
of all His marvellous works. Alleluia.

[Capitulum Laudes]
!Tob 12:12
v. Tudjátok meg hát, hogy amikor imádkoztatok, te meg Sára, kéréseteket az Úr fölséges színe elé vittem és felolvastam. Éppen úgy azt is, hogy eltemetted a halottakat. 
$Deo gratias

[Oratio]
O God, Who didst give thy blessed Archangel Raphael unto thy servant Tobias to~
be his fellow wayfarer, grant unto us, thy servants, that the same may ever keep~
and shield us, help and defend us.
$Per Dominum

[Lectio Prima]
!Tob 12:20
v. Dicsõítsétek ezért az Urat a földön, és adjatok hálát Istennek. Most visszatérek ahhoz, aki küldött. Írjatok le mindent, ami történt!" Ezzel fölemelkedett. 

[Capitulum Tertia]
!Tob 12:12
v. Tudjátok meg hát, hogy amikor imádkoztatok, te meg Sára, kéréseteket az Úr fölséges színe elé vittem és felolvastam. Éppen úgy azt is, hogy eltemetted a halottakat. 
$Deo gratias

[Capitulum Sexta]
!Tob 12:14
v. Ugyanakkor elküldött Isten, hogy meggyógyítsalak, és a menyedet is, Sárát. 
$Deo gratias

[Capitulum Nona]
!Tob 12:20
v. Dicsõítsétek ezért az Urat a földön, és adjatok hálát Istennek. Most visszatérek ahhoz, aki küldött. Írjatok le mindent, ami történt!" Ezzel fölemelkedett. 
$Deo gratias

[Responsory Tertia]
R.br. An Angel stood * at the Altar of the Temple
R. An Angel stood * at the Altar of the Temple
V. Having a golden censer in his hand.
R. At the Altar of the Temple
&Gloria
R. An Angel stood * at the Altar of the Temple
_
V. And the smoke of the incense ascended up before the Lord
R. Out of the Angel's hand

[Responsory Sexta]
R.br. The smoke of the incense * ascended up before the Lord
R. The smoke of the incense * ascended up before the Lord
V. Out of the Angel's hand.
R. ascended up before the Lord
&Gloria
R. The smoke of the incense * ascended up before the Lord
_
V. Before the Angels will I sing praise unto thee, O my God
R. I will worship toward thy holy Temple, and praise thy Name

[Responsory Nona]
R.br. Before the Angels will * I sing praise unto thee, O my God.
R. Before the Angels will * I sing praise unto thee, O my God.
V. I will worship toward thy holy Temple, and praise thy Name.
R. I sing praise unto thee, O my God.
&Gloria
R. Before the Angels will * I sing praise unto thee, O my God,
_
V. Worship God
R. All ye His Angels

[Ant 3]
O Thou Prince most glorious * Raphael the Archangel, remember us, and here and everywhere alway entreat for us the countenance of the Son of God.

