[Rank]
In Commemoratione S. Pauli Apostoli;;Duplex majus;;4;;ex C1

[Rank1960]
In Commemoratione S. Pauli Apostoli;;Duplex;;3;;vide C1

[Rule]
ex C1;
9 lectiones
Psalmi Dominica
Antiphonas horas
Psalm5 Vespera=116
Psalm5 Vespera3=138
Sub unica concl
No prima vespera

[Ant Vespera]
I have planted, * Apollos watered, but God gave the increase. Alleluia.;;109
Most gladly therefore will I rather glory * in my infirmities, that the power of Christ may rest upon me.;;110
The grace of God which was bestowed upon me was not in vain, * but His grace abideth ever in me.;;111
In Damascus the governor under Aretas the king was desirous to apprehend me by the brethren in a basket was I let down by the wall, and so escaped I his hands, in the name of the Lord.;;112
Thrice was I beaten with rods, * once was I stoned, thrice I suffered shipwreck, for Christ's name's sake.;;116

[Capitulum Vespera]
!2 Tim 4:7-8
v. I have fought a good fight, I have finished my course, I have kept the faith. Henceforth there is laid up for me a crown of righteousness, which the Lord, the righteous Judge, shall give me at that day.
$Deo gratias

[Versum 1]
V. O Holy Apostle Paul, thou art a chosen vessel unto God.
R. To preach the Gospel throughout the whole world.

[Ant 1]
O Holy Apostle Paul * Preacher of the truth, and Teacher of the Gentiles, pray for us to God Who hath chosen thee.

[Hymnus Matutinum]
v. Our souls' great teacher, Paul, our guide in wisdom's ways,
Teach us, our fainting hearts, to heaven's glad clime to raise,
Till faith in clearest light her bright meridian gains,
And love with sun-like fire within each bosom reigns.
_
All honour, might, and power, and hymns of joy we bring,
While to the Trinity eternal praise we sing;
He rules the universe in wondrous Unity,
And shall, throughout the days of all eternity.
Amen.

[Ant Matutinum]
He That wrought effectually in Peter to the Apostleship, the Same was mighty in me toward the Gentiles, and they perceived the grace that was given unto me of the Lord Christ;;18
I know Whom I have believed, and am persuaded that He is able to keep that which I have committed unto Him against that day, as a righteous Judge;;33
To me to live is Christ, and to die is gain God forbid that I should glory, save in the cross of our Lord Jesus Christ;;44
V. Their sound hath gone forth into all the earth
R. And their words unto the ends of the world.
O Holy Apostle Paul, thou art a chosen vessel unto God, to preach the Gospel throughout the whole world;;46
Paul is made one of the chiefest among the Saints, and a chosen vessel verily he is worthy to be glorified, for he was made worthy to sit upon one of the twelve thrones;;60
I have fought a good fight, I have finished my course, I have kept the faith;;63
V. Thou shalt make them princes over all the earth
R. They shall remember thy name O Lord.
Saul, who also is called Paul, was made a great preacher, and, being of God increased the more in strength, he confounded the Jews;;74
Lest I should be exalted above measure through the greatness of the revelations, there was given to me a thorn in the flesh, the messenger of Satan to buffet me for this thing I besought the Lord thrice, that it might depart from me and the Lord said unto me Paul, My grace is sufficient for thee;;96
There is laid up for me a crown of righteousness, which the Lord, the righteous Judge, shall give me at that day;;98
V. Thy friends O Lord * are made exceedingly honourable:
R. Their principality is exceedingly strengthened.

[Lectio1]
Lesson from the Acts of Apostles
!Acts 13:1-4
1 Now there were in the church which was at Antioch, prophets and doctors, among whom was Barnabas, and Simon who was called Niger, and Lucius of Cyrene, and Manahen, who was the foster brother of Herod the tetrarch, and Saul.
2 And as they were ministering to the Lord, and fasting, the Holy Ghost said to them: Separate me Saul and Barnabas, for the work whereunto I have taken them.
3 Then they, fasting and praying, and imposing their hands upon them, sent them away.
4 So they being sent by the Holy Ghost, went to Seleucia: and from thence they sailed to Cyprus.

[Responsory1]
R. He That wrought effectually in Peter to the Apostleship, the Same was mighty in me toward the Gentiles,
* And they perceived the grace that was given unto me of the Lord Christ.
V. The grace of God which was bestowed upon me was not in vain, but His grace abideth ever in me.
R. And they perceived the grace that was given unto me of the Lord Christ.

[Lectio2]
!Acts 13:5-8
5 And when they were come to Salamina, they preached the word of God in the synagogues of the Jews. And they had John also in the ministry.
6 And when they had gone through the whole island, as far as Paphos, they found a certain man, a magician, a false prophet, a Jew, whose name was Bar-jesu:
7 Who was with the proconsul Sergius Paulus, a prudent man. He sending for Barnabas and Saul, desired to hear the word of God.
8 But Elymas the magician (for so his name is interpreted) withstood them, seeking to turn away the proconsul from the faith.

[Responsory2]
R. I have fought a good fight, I have finished my course, I have kept the faith
* Henceforth there is laid up for me a crown of righteousness.
V. I know Whom I have believed, and am persuaded that He is able to keep that which I have committed unto Him against that day.
R. Henceforth there is laid up for me a crown of righteousness.

[Lectio3]
!Acts 13:9-13
9 Then Saul, otherwise Paul, filled with the Holy Ghost, looking upon him,
10 Said: O full of all guile, and of all deceit, child of the devil, enemy of all justice, thou ceasest not to pervert the right ways of the Lord.
11 And now behold, the hand of the Lord is upon thee, and thou shalt be blind, not seeing the sun for a time. And immediately there fell a mist and darkness upon him, and going about, he sought some one to lead him by the hand.
12 Then the proconsul, when he had seen what was done, believed, admiring at the doctrine of the Lord.
13 Now when Paul and they that were with him had sailed from Paphos, they came to Perge in Pamphylia. And John departing from them, returned to Jerusalem.

[Responsory3]
R. There is laid up for me a crown of righteousness
* Which the Lord, the righteous Judge, shall give me at that day.
V. I know Whom I have believed, and am persuaded that He is able to keep that which I have committed unto Him against that day.
R. Which the Lord, the righteous Judge, shall give me at that day.

[Lectio4]
From the Book of St Austin, Bishop of Hippo, touching Grace and Free-will.
!Chapter 6
The Apostle Paul was a man, who, when we first hear of him, had not only no merits, but a great many demerits. That man received the grace of God, Who returneth good for evil, and let us see in what sort of language, when the hour of his last sufferings was at hand, he wrote to Timothy. He saith I am now ready to be offered, and the time of my departure is at hand. I have fought a good fight, I have finished my course, I have kept the faith. (2 Tim. iii. 6.) Here he counteth his merits, whereon a crown was immediately to follow, just as grace had followed immediately on his demerits. Listen to what cometh next Henceforth there is laid up for me a crown of righteousness, which the Lord, the righteous Judge, shall give me at that day. Unto whom would the Lord give a crown as a righteous Judge, if He had not first given grace, as a merciful Father And how would that crown be a crown of righteousness, if there had not first come grace which justifieth the ungodly How could a reward have been earned unless the power to earn had first been given unearned?

[Responsory4]
R. O Holy Apostle Paul, thou art a chosen vessel unto God, to preach the Gospel throughout the whole world
* Through whom all nations have known the grace of God.
V. Pray for us to God Who hath chosen thee.
R. Through whom all nations have known the grace of God.

[Lectio5]
Let us now consider what were the merits of the Apostle Paul, which entitled him to look for a crown of righteousness from the Lord, the righteous Judge, and let us see whether these merits sprang from himself or were God's gifts to him. He saith I have fought a good fight, I have finished my course, I have kept the faith. To begin with, these good works would have been nothing worth, unless they had come from good thoughts. Listen therefore to what this same Paul saith concerning good thoughts. He writeth to the Corinthians Not that we are sufficient of ourselves to think anything, as of ourselves but our sufficiency~
is of God. (2 Cor. iii. 5.) Now let us take point by point.

[Responsory5]
R. By the grace of God I am what I am.
* And His grace which was bestowed upon me was not in vain, but abideth ever in me.
V. He that wrought effectually in Peter to the Apostleship, the Same was mighty in me toward the Gentiles.
R. And His grace which was bestowed upon me was not in vain, but abideth ever in me.

[Lectio6]
He saith I have fought a good fight. I should like to know in whose strength he fought In his own strength or in strength given him from above God forbid that this great teacher should be supposed not to have known the Law of his God, Who saith in the Book of Deuteronomy Say not in thine heart My power and the might of mine hand hath gotten me this wealth. But thou shalt remember the Lord thy God for it is He That giveth thee power to get wealth. (viii. 17, 18.) And, again, what is the good of a fight except it end in victory And who is he that giveth victory save He of Whom this very same Paul saith Thanks be to God, Which giveth us the victory, through our Lord Jesus~
Christ! (1 Cor. xv. 57.)

[Responsory6]
R. Saul, who also is called Paul, was made a great preacher
* And being of God increased the more in strength, he confounded the Jews.
V. Proving that This is very Christ, the Son of God.
R. And being of God increased the more in strength, he confounded the Jews.
&Gloria
R. And being of God increased the more in strength, he confounded the Jews.

[Lectio94]
From the Book of St Austin, Bishop of Hippo, touching Grace and Free-will.
!Chapter 6
The Apostle Paul was a man, who, when we first hear of him, had not only no merits, but a great many demerits. That man received the grace of God, Who returneth good for evil, and let us see in what sort of language, when the hour of his last sufferings was at hand, he wrote to Timothy. He saith I am now ready to be offered, and the time of my departure is at hand. I have fought a good fight, I have finished my course, I have kept the faith. (2 Tim. iii. 6.) Here he counteth his merits, whereon a crown was immediately to follow, just as grace had followed immediately on his demerits. Listen to what cometh next Henceforth there is laid up for me a crown of righteousness, which the Lord, the righteous Judge, shall give me at that day. Unto whom would the Lord give a crown as a righteous Judge, if He had not first given grace, as a merciful Father And how would that crown be a crown of righteousness, if there had not first come grace which justifieth the ungodly How could a reward have been earned unless the power to earn had first been given unearned?
&teDeum
[Lectio7]
From the Holy Gospel according to Matthew
!Matt 10:16-22
At that time Jesus said unto His disciples Behold, I send you forth as sheep in the midst of wolves. And so on.
_
Homily by St John Chrysostom, Patriarch of Constantinople.
!34 on Matthew.
It is as though He said Let not your heart be troubled although when I send you forth as sheep in the midst of wolves, I bid you be harmless as doves for, albeit, if I would, I could now make things otherwise, and suffer not that ye should have to bear anything grievous, neither be at the mercy of the wolves as are other sheep, but on the contrary, could make you more dreadful to the lions than the lions to you nevertheless, thus must it needs be, and yourselves it will make more glorious, and My power it will wholly show forth. For thus was it that afterwards the Same Lord said unto Paul: My grace is sufficient for thee,~
for My strength is made perfect in weakness. (2 Cor. xii. 9.) It is I that have made you to be what ye are.

[Responsory7]
R. O Holy Apostle Paul, Preacher of the truth, and teacher of the Gentiles,
* Pray for us to God, Who hath chosen thee, that we may be made worthy of the grace of God.
V. O Holy Apostle Paul, thou art a chosen vessel unto God, and a Preacher of the truth.
R. Pray for us to God Who hath chosen thee, that we may be made worthy of the grace of God.

[Lectio8]
But let us look what wisdom it is which the Lord requireth. It is the wisdom of the serpent. The serpent draweth all the rest of his body after his head, and it is no matter to him if his body be cut through, so long as he keepeth his head unharmed. Thus, O Christian, is it with thee. It is no matter to thee that for thy faith's sake thou shouldest lose all things else money, or body, or, if need be, life itself. thy faith is thy head, and the root of thy being hold fast to that, and, as long as thou hast that, although thou shouldest lose all things else, it will only be to receive them back again with interest an hundredfold. And thus it is that the Lord biddeth us, not to be single-hearted only, nor wise only, but both together, that therefrom we may be strong.

[Responsory8]
R. In Damascus the governor under Aretas the king was desirous to apprehend me
* And by the brethren in a basket was I let down by the wall, and so escaped I his hands, in the name of the Lord.
V. The God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ knoweth that I lie not.
R. And by the brethren in a basket was I let down by the wall.
&Gloria
R. And by the brethren in a basket was I let down by the wall.

[Lectio9]
If thou wilt see how these words were brought to the proof in very deed, read the Book of the Acts of the Apostles. There thou wilt see how that oftentimes the Jewish people rose against the Apostles and gnashed on them with their teeth, but they, with dove-like guilelessness, gave them smooth answers, and turned away their wrath, and quenched their fury, and stopped their onset. When the Jews said Did not we straitly command you, that ye should not teach in this Name? although the Apostles could have worked any miracles they chose, yet they neither said nor did anything sharp, but answered them with all meekness Whether it be right in the sight of God to hearken unto you more than unto God,~
judge ye. (Acts v. 28 iv. 19.) Here thou hast the harmlessness of doves listen now to the wisdom of serpents We cannot but speak the things which we have seen and heard. (20.)
&teDeum

[Ant Laudes]
I have planted, * Apollos watered, but God gave the increase. Alleluia.
Most gladly therefore will I rather glory * in my infirmities, that the power of Christ may rest upon me.
The grace of God which was bestowed upon me was not in vain, * but His grace abideth ever in me.
In Damascus the governor under Aretas the king was desirous to apprehend me by the brethren in a basket was I let down by the wall, and so escaped I his hands, in the name of the Lord.
Thrice was I beaten with rods, * once was I stoned, thrice I suffered shipwreck, for Christ's name's sake.

[Capitulum Laudes]
!2. Tim 4:7-8
v. I have fought a good fight, I have finished my course, I have kept the faith. Henceforth there is laid up for me a crown of righteousness, which the Lord, the righteous Judge, shall give me at that day.
$Deo gratias

[Hymnus Laudes]
@Commune/C1:Hymnus Vespera

[Versum 2]
V. O Holy Apostle Paul, thou art a chosen vessel unto God.
R. To preach the Gospel throughout the whole world.

[Ant 2]
Thus saith the Lord * Ye, which have followed Me, shall sit upon twelve thrones, judging the twelve tribes of Israel.

[Oratio]
O God, Who, through the preaching of the Blessed Apostle Paul, hast caused the light of the Gospel to shine gloriously among the Gentiles, we beseech thee that we who keep the Feast of his birth, may, now that he is with thee, feel to our comfort that his prayer availeth much with thee.
$Per Dominum
_
@Sancti/01-25:Commemoratio4

[Commemoratio]
@Sancti/06-24:Octava

[Lectio Prima]
!1 Cor 15:9-10
v. For I am the least of the Apostles, that am not worthy to be called an Apostle, because I persecuted the Church of God. But by the grace of God I am what I am, and His grace, which was bestowed upon me, was not in vain.

[Capitulum Tertia]
!2 Tim 4:7-8
v. I have fought a good fight, I have finished my course, I have kept the faith. Henceforth there is laid up for me a crown of righteousness, which the Lord, the righteous Judge, shall give me at that day.
$Deo gratias

[Responsory Tertia]
R.br. Their sound hath gone * forth into all the earth
R. Their sound hath gone * forth into all the earth:
V. And their words unto the ends of the world.
R. Forth into all the earth:
&Gloria
R. Their sound hath gone * forth into all the earth:
_
V. Thou shalt make them princes over all the earth
R. They shall remember thy name, O Lord

[Capitulum Sexta]
!2 Cor. 12:7-9
v. Lest I should be exalted above measure through the greatness of the revelations, there was given to me a thorn in the flesh, the messenger of Satan, to buffet me for this thing I besought the Lord thrice, that it might depart from me and the Lord said unto me Paul, My grace is sufficient for thee.
$Deo gratias

[Responsory Sexta]
R.br. Thou shalt make them princes * over all the earth
R. Thou shalt make them princes * over all the earth
V. They shall remember thy name, O Lord
R. All over the earth.
&Gloria
R. Thou shalt make them princes * over all the earth.
_
V. O God, are made exceedingly honourable:
R. Their principality is exceedingly strengthened.

[Capitulum Nona]
!1 Cor 15:9-10
v. For I am the least of the Apostles, that am not worthy to be called an Apostle, because I persecuted the Church of God. But by the grace of God I am what I am, and His grace, which was bestowed upon me, was not in vain.
$Deo gratias

[Responsory Nona]
R.br. Your friends O God * are made exceedingly honourable:
R. O God, your friends * are made exceedingly honourable:
V. their principality is exceedingly strengthened.
R. O God, your friends
&Gloria
R. O God, your friends *are made exceedingly honourable:
_
V. They declared the works of God
R. And understood his doings.
