(Canticum Trium_puerorum Dan 3:57-88,56)
57 All ye works of the Lord, bless the Lord: praise and exalt him above all for ever. 
58 O ye angels of the Lord, bless the Lord: praise and exalt him above all for ever. 
59 O ye heavens, bless the Lord: praise and exalt him above all for ever.
60 O all ye waters that are above the heavens, bless the Lord; praise and exalt him above all for ever.
61 O all ye powers of the Lord, bless the Lord: praise and exalt him above all for ever. 
62 O ye sun and moon, bless the Lord: praise and exalt him above all for ever. 
63 O ye stars of heaven, bless the Lord: praise and exalt him above all for ever. 
_
64 O every shower and dew, bless ye the Lord: praise and exalt him above all for ever. 
65 O all ye spirits of God, bless the Lord: praise and exalt him above all for ever.
66 O ye fire and heat, bless the Lord: praise and exalt him above all for ever. 
67 O ye cold and heat, bless the Lord: praise and exalt him above all for ever. 
68 O ye dews and hoar frosts, bless the Lord: praise and exalt him above all for ever.
69 O ye frost and cold, bless the Lord: praise and exalt him above all for ever. 
70 O ye ice and snow, bless the Lord: praise and exalt him above all for ever.
71 O ye nights and days, bless the Lord: praise and exalt him above all for ever. 
72 O ye light and darkness, bless the Lord: praise and exalt him above all for ever. 
73 O ye lightnings and clouds, bless the Lord: praise and exalt him above all for ever. 
_
74 O let the earth bless the Lord: let it praise and exalt him above all for ever. 
75 O ye mountains and hills, bless the Lord: praise and exalt him above all for ever.
76 O all ye things that spring up in the earth, bless the Lord: praise and exalt him above all for ever. 
77 O ye fountains, bless the Lord: praise and exalt him above all for ever. 
78 O ye seas and rivers, bless the Lord: praise and exalt him above all for ever. 
79 O ye whales, and all that move in the waters, bless the Lord: praise and exalt him above all for ever. 
80 O all ye fowls of the air, bless the Lord: praise and exalt him above all for ever.
81 O all ye beasts and cattle, bless the Lord: praise and exalt him above all for ever. 
_
82 O ye sons of men, bless the Lord, praise and exalt him above all for ever. 
83 O let Israel bless the Lord: let them praise and exalt him above all for ever. 
84 O ye priests of the Lord, bless the Lord: praise and exalt him above all for ever. 
85 O ye servants of the Lord, bless the Lord: praise and exalt him above all for ever.
86 O ye spirits and souls of the just, bless the Lord: praise and exalt him above all for ever. 
87 O ye holy and humble of heart, bless the Lord: praise and exalt him above all for ever. 
88 O Ananias, Azarias, and Misael, bless ye the Lord: praise and exalt him above all for ever. For he hath delivered us from hell, and saved us out of the hand of death, and delivered us out of the midst of the burning flame, and saved us out of the midst of the fire.
56 Blessed art thou in the firmament of heaven: and worthy of praise, and glorious for ever. 

