[Officium]
C. tvého a biskupa

[Missa]
Statuit

[Comment]
# V den mučedníka, biskupa
Pán volí si za své zástupce, koho chce; na toho pak přenáší část svého lesku. Není větší důstojnosti nad kněžskou! Není důležitějšího úkolu nad pastýřství duší! Kéž by všichni kněží zachovali svou důstojnost na věky! Povinností věřících jest modliti se za jejich vytrvalost, neboť člověk s tíhou nese břímě své slabé a vratké přirozenosti. Nejen kněžstvo, ale i věřící laikové musejí zachovati důstojnost svého kněžství, vždyť všichni jsou „královským kněžstvem“, jež obětuje Otci v modlitbách Syna za svou spásu.

[Ant Vespera]
Kdo se ke mě přizná * před lidmi, k němu se také přiznám já před svým Otcem.
Kdo mě následuje, * nechodí v temnotách, ale bude mít světlo života, praví Pán.
Kdo mi slouží, * takto mě následuje; a kde jsem já, tam je i můj služebník.
Pokud mi bude někdo sloužit, * poctí jej můj Otec, který je v nebi, praví Pán.
Chci, Otče, * aby tam, kde jsem já, byl i můj služebník.

[Hymnus Vespera]
v. Ó Bože, ty jsi hrdinů,
Zisk, odměna i koruna, 
Když Mučedníka slavíme, 
Z pout hříchů rač nás uvolnit.
_
On totiž světa rozkoše
A bludné hody vábivé 
Pokládal správně za padlé, 
Tak došel do říše nebeské.
_
Udatně běžel ku trestům, 
Snášel je se srdcem mužným, 
Pro tebe vylil svoji krev 
Už vlastní za to věčný dar.
_
Proto teď vroucně, Laskavý, 
Ti svoje prosby vzdáváme:
Pro Mučedníka vítězství 
Odpusť nám, sluhům, přečiny.
_
* Chvála a sláva trvalá
buď Otci též i Synovi
I Duchu Utěšiteli
Nyní i na věčné věky.
Amen.

[Versum 1]
V. Slávou a ctí jsi jej korunoval, Pane.
R. A ustanovil jej nad dílem svých rukou.

[Ant 1]
Tento Svatý * pro zákon Boží bojoval až do smrti, a řečí bezbožníků se pranic nebál; stál totiž na pevné zemi.

[Oratio]
Shlédni na naši slabost, všemohoucí Bože, a protože břímě našich skutků nás tíží, nechť nás chrání slavná přímluva svatého N., tvého Mučedníka a Biskupa.
$Per Dominum

[Invit]
The Lord, the King of Martyrs, * O come, let us worship.

[Ant Matutinum]
His delight * was in the law of the Lord day and night.;;1
The Lord hath set him * upon His holy hill, to declare His decree.;;2
I cried unto the Lord * with my voice, and He heard me out of His holy hill.;;3
O ye sons of men, * know that the Lord hath set apart him that is holy for Himself.;;4
O Lord, Thou hast compassed him * with thy favour as with a shield.;;5
Thou hast crowned him * with glory and honour in all the earth.;;8
The righteous Lord * loveth righteousness; His countenance doth behold uprightness.;;10
He shall dwell * in thy tabernacle, He shall rest upon thy holy hill.;;14
O Lord, Thou hast set a crown * of precious stones upon his head.;;20

[Nocturn 2 Versum]
V. Nasadil jsi, Pane, na hlavu jeho.
R. Korunu z drahých kamenů.

[Nocturn 3 Versum]
V. Veliká je jeho sláva ve tvé spáse.
R. Slávu a velikou poctu jsi mu udělil.

[Lectio1]
Lesson from the Acts of Apostles
!Acts 20:17-24
17 And sending from Miletus to Ephesus, he called the ancients of the church.
18 And when they were come to him, and were together, he said to them: You know from the first day that I came into Asia, in what manner I have been with you, for all the time,
19 Serving the Lord with all humility, and with tears, and temptations which befell me by the conspiracies of the Jews;
20 How I have kept back nothing that was profitable to you, but have preached it to you, and taught you publicly, and from house to house,
21 Testifying both to Jews and Gentiles penance towards God, and faith in our Lord Jesus Christ.
22 And now, behold, being bound in the spirit, I go to Jerusalem: not knowing the things which shall befall me there:
23 Save that the Holy Ghost in every city witnesseth to me, saying: That bands and afflictions wait for me at Jerusalem.
24 But I fear none of these things, neither do I count my life more precious than myself, so that I may consummate my course and the ministry of the word which I received from the Lord Jesus, to testify the gospel of the grace of God.

[Responsory1]
R. This man is holy, for he hath striven for the law of his God even unto death, and hath not feared for the words of the ungodly;
* For he had his foundation upon a strong rock.
V. This is he which loved not his life in this world, and is come unto an everlasting kingdom.
R. For he had his foundation upon a strong rock.

[Lectio2]
!Acts 20:25-31
25 And now behold, I know that all you, among whom I have gone preaching the kingdom of God, shall see my face no more.
26 Wherefore I take you to witness this day, that I am clear from the blood of all men;
27 For I have not spared to declare unto you all the counsel of God.
28 Take heed to yourselves, and to the whole flock, wherein the Holy Ghost hath placed you bishops, to rule the church of God, which he hath purchased with his own blood.
29 I know that, after my departure, ravening wolves will enter in among you, not sparing the flock.
30 And of your own selves shall arise men speaking perverse things, to draw away disciples after them.
31 Therefore watch, keeping in memory, that for three years I ceased not, with tears to admonish every one of you night and day.

[Responsory2]
R. The righteous shall grow as the lily
* Yea, he shall flourish in the presence of the Lord for ever.
V. Those that be planted in the house of the Lord, shall flourish in the courts of the house of our God.
R. Yea, he shall flourish in the presence of the Lord for ever.

[Lectio3]
!Acts 20:32-38
32 And now I commend you to God, and to the word of his grace, who is able to build up, and to give an inheritance among all the sanctified.
33 I have not coveted any man's silver, gold, or apparel, as
34 You yourselves know: for such things as were needful for me and them that are with me, these hands have furnished.
35 I have showed you all things, how that so labouring you ought to support the weak, and to remember the word of the Lord Jesus, how he said: It is a more blessed thing to give, rather than to receive.
36 And when he had said these things, kneeling down, he prayed with them all.
37 And there was much weeping among them all; and falling on the neck of Paul, they kissed him,
38 Being grieved most of all for the word which he had said, that they should see his face no more. And they brought him on his way to the ship.

[Responsory3]
R. This is he which knew righteousness, and saw great wonders, and made his prayer unto the Most High
* And he is numbered among the Saints.
V. This is he which loved not his life in this world, and is come unto an everlasting kingdom.
R. And he is numbered among the Saints.
&Gloria
R. And he is numbered among the Saints.

[Lectio4]
From the Sermons of St Augustine, Bishop (of Hippo.)
!44 on the Saints.
The illustrious day whereon the blessed Martyr N. conquered, doth this day come round to us again and as the Church doth rejoice with him in his glory, so doth she set before us his footsteps to be followed. For if we suffer, we shall also reign with him. In his glorious battle we have two things chiefly to consider the hardened cruelty of the tormentor, and the unconquered patience of the Martyr the cruelty of the tormentor, that we may abhor it; the patience of the Martyr, that we may imitate it. Hear what the Psalmist saith, complaining against sin: “Fret not thyself because of the evil-doers, for they shall soon dry up like the grass.” (xxxvi. 1.) But touching the patience which is to be shown against the evil-doers, hear the word wherewith the Apostle moveth us Ye have need of patience, that ye may receive the promise. (Heb. x. 36.)

[Responsory4]
R. The Lord made him honourable, and defended him from his enemies, and kept him safe from those that lay in wait for him,
* And gave him perpetual glory.
V. He went down with him into the pit, and left him not in bonds.
R. And gave him perpetual glory.

[Lectio5]
So the patience of the blessed Martyr was crowned, and the unchastened spite of the tormentor is given over to everlasting torture. Christ's glorious champion looked for this during his battle, and shrank not from prison. Like his Head, he bore reproach, underwent mocking, and feared not for scourges and as many sufferings as for Christ's sake he bore before he died, so many offerings did he make unto Him of himself. He had drunk in the Apostles' word and kept it deep in I him: “The sufferings of this present time are not worthy to be compared with the glory which shall be revealed in us,” (Rom. viii. 18.) “for our light affliction which is but for a moment, worketh for us a far more exceeding and eternal weight of glory.” (2 Cor. iv. 17.) Being lifted up above earthly things by the love of this promise, andj tasting beforehand the sweetness of the heavenly peace, he was unspeakably moved, and said with the Psalmist “What have I in heaven, and what is there upon earth that desire beside thee My flesh and my heart faileth Thou art the God of my heart, and God is my portion for ever.” (lxxii. 26.)

[Responsory5]
R. Lord, Thou hast given him his heart's desire.
* And hast not withholden the request of his lips.
V. For Thou hast prevented him with the blessings of sweetness: Thou hast set a crown of precious stones upon his head.
R. And hast not withholden the request of his lips.

[Lectio6]
For he considered, as far as man's weakness is able, through this darkness, to fix the eyes of his mind upon the eternal things, what is the gladness of the city above and being not able to tell it, he cried out wondering “What have I in heaven?” As though he would have said “It passeth my strength, it passeth the power of my utterance, it goeth beyond the reach of my understanding, what is that beauty, what is that glory, what is that exaltation, wherein, when He hath hidden us from the troubling of men, in the secret of His presence, our Lord Jesus Christ shall change our vile body, that it may be fashioned like unto His glorious Body” (Ps. xxx. 21, Phil. iii. 21.) In sight of this perfect liberty he shrank from no danger, and quailed before no suffering and if he could have died a thousand times, he would not have thought himself to have bought it at a price high enough.

[Responsory6]
R. The Lord hath put on him a robe of honour,
* And put about his head a crown of joy.
V. With the bread of life and understanding hath the Lord fed him, and given him the water of health and wisdom to drink.
R. And put about his head a crown of joy.
&Gloria
R. And put about his head a crown of joy.

[Lectio7]
From the Holy Gospel according to Luke
!Luke 14:26-33
At that time, Jesus said unto the multitudes: If any man come to Me, and hate not his father, and mother, and wife, and children, and brethren, and sisters, yea, and his own life also, he cannot be My disciple. And so on.
_
Homily by Pope St Gregory the Great
!Homilia 37th on the Gospels.
Dearly beloved brethren, if we consider what and how great things are promised unto us in heaven, all things which are upon earth grow poor to our mind. For when this world's goods are reckoned against the gladness above, they are found to be a clog rather than an help. This present life being compared to life eternal, ought rather to be called death than life. For what is the daily failing of our corruption but, as it were, a creeping death But what tongue is there that can tell, or what understanding that can comprehend how great is the rejoicing in the city above, where they have part with the choirs of Angels, where they stand with the most blessed spirits before the glory of the Creator, where they see the face of God present, where they behold the Incomprehensible Light, where they have no fear of death, and where they rejoice eternally incorruptible

[Responsory7]
R. A crown of gold upon his head,
* Wherein is engraved Holiness, an ornament of honour, a costly work.
V. For Thou hast prevented him with the blessings of sweetness, Thou hast set a crown of precious stones upon his head.
R. Wherein is engraved Holiness, an ornament of honour, a costly work.

[Lectio8]
Then we hear these things our hearts burn within us and we long to be already there, where we hope to rejoice for ever. But we cannot attain unto great rewards, save through great labour. Therefore saith the excellent preacher Paul: “He is not crowned, except he strive lawfully.” (2 Tim. ii. 5.) The greatness of the reward doth delight our mind let not the throes of the struggle dishearten us. Therefore the Truth saith unto every one that cometh unto Him “If any man come to Me, and hate not his father and mother, and wife, and children, and brethren, and sisters, yea, and his own life also, he cannot be My disciple.”

[Responsory8 non Effusorum]
R. O Lord, thou hast prevented him with blessings of sweetness:
* Thou hast set on his head a crown of precious stones.
V. He asked life of thee: and thou hast given him length of days for ever and ever.
R. Thou hast set on his head a crown of precious stones.
&Gloria
R. Thou hast set on his head a crown of precious stones.

[Responsory8]
R. This is a Martyr indeed, who shed his blood for Christ's Name's sake
* Who feared not for the threats of judges, nor sought to be great with the glory of this world, but pressed on unto the kingdom of heaven.
V. The Lord guided the righteous in right paths, and showed him the kingdom of God.
R. Who feared not for the threats of judges, nor sought to be great with the glory of this world, but pressed on unto the kingdom of heaven.
&Gloria
R. Who feared not for the threats of judges, nor sought to be great with the glory of this world, but pressed on unto the kingdom of heaven.

[Lectio9]
Or it may be asked how we are commanded in one place to hate our parents, and them that are near us in the flesh, and in another place to love even our enemies. And, verily, the Truth hath said, as touching a wife “What God hath joined together, let not man put asunder.” (Matth. xix. 6.) And Paul saith “ Husbands, love your wives, even as Christ also loved the Church.” (Eph. v. 25.) Behold, the disciple commandeth a man to love his wife, and the Master saith “If any man hate not his wife, he cannot be My disciple.” Doth the judge, then, order one proclamation, and the crier make another? or can the man both love and hate? If we consider well the force of the commandment, we shall be able in wisdom to do both. Let us love wife, and kindred, and neighbour, as touching their nearness in the flesh but as touching the way of God, if they withstand us therein, let us not know them, but hate them and flee from them.
&teDeum

[Capitulum Laudes]
!Jakub 1:12
v. Blaze muži, který trpí pokušení, neboť až bude vyzkoušen, přijme korunu života, kterou zaslíbil Bůh těm, kteří jej milují. 
$Deo gratias

[Hymnus Laudes]
v. Svědku Boží, jenž jedina
Z Otce následuješ Syna,
Už plesáš nad nepřítelem
Vítězně v štěstí nebeském.
_
Zásluhou tvojí přímluvy,
Ať hřích se od nás odplaví,
Odžeň od nás poskvrnu zla,
A rozptyl žití rmut a žal.
_
Rozvázána jsou již pouta,
Tvého posvěceného těla,
Rozvaž i nás s světem spjaté
Mocí Synovy lásky Božské.
_
Buď Bohu Otci sláva, čest
i Synu, který z mrtvých vstal,
i Duchu Utěšiteli
bud chvála všechen věků věk.
Amen.

[Versum 2]
V. Spravedlivý pokvete jako palma.
R. Bude rozmnožen jako libanonský cedr.

[Ant 2]
Kdo nenávidí * svůj život na tomto světě, zachová si jej do života věčného.

[Lectio Prima]
!Sir 39:6
v. Spravedlivý za rozbřesku pozvedne své srdce v bdění k Hospodinu, který jej stvořil, a před zrakem Nejvyššího bude prosit.

[Responsory Breve Tertia]
R.br. Slávou a ctí * jsi jej korunoval, Pane.
R. Slávou a ctí * jsi jej korunoval, Pane.
V. A ustanovil jej nad dílem svých rukou.
R. Jsi jej korunoval, Pane.
&Gloria
R. Slávou a ctí * jsi jej korunoval, Pane.

[Capitulum Sexta]
!Sir 15:3
v. Živil jej chlebem života a poznání, a vodou spásné moudrosti jej napájel Pán, náš Bůh.
$Deo gratias

[Responsory Breve Sexta]
R.br. Nasadil jsi, Pane, * Na hlavu jeho. 
R. Nasadil jsi, Pane, * Na hlavu jeho. 
V. Korunu z drahých kamenů.
R. Na hlavu jeho.
&Gloria
R. Nasadil jsi, Pane, * Na hlavu jeho.

[Responsory Breve Nona]
R.br. Veliká je jeho sláva * Ve tvém spasení.
R. Veliká je jeho sláva * Ve tvém spasení.
V. Slávu a velikou poctu jsi mu udělil.
R. Ve tvém spasení.
&Gloria
R. Veliká je jeho sláva * Ve tvém spasení.

[Ant 3]
Kdo chce jít za mnou, * ať zapře sám sebe; a vezme svůj kříž, a následuje mě.


[Lectio7 in 2 loco]
From the Holy Gospel according to Matthew
!Matt 16:24-27
At that time, Jesus said unto His disciples: If any man will come after Me, let him deny himself, and take up his cross, and follow Me. And so on.
_
Homily by Pope St Gregory (the Great.)
!32nd on the Gospels
Our Lord and Redeemer came into the world a new Man, and gave the world new commandments. For against the ways of our old life, brought and bred up in sin, He set the contrast of His new life. It was the old way, according to the knowledge of the carnal man, for every man to keep his own goods, and, if he were able to do it, to take his neighbour's goods also, and, if he were not able to take them, at least to lust after them. But the Heavenly Physician hath medicines wherewith to meet all the diseases of sin. For, even, as by the art of the physician, things hot are healed by things cold, and things cold by things hot, so doth our Lord set against sin holiness, ordaining for the lecherous purity, for the miserly munificence, for the hot-tempered meekness, and for the proud lowliness.

[Lectio8 in 2 loco]
So the Lord, when He would give a new commandment unto them that came to Him, said Whosoever he be of you that forsaketh not all that he hath, he cannot be My disciple, (Luke xiv. 33,) as though He had said openly: All ye that according to the old man lust after your neighbour's goods, must, according to the zeal of the new man, give away even that which is your own. But let us hear again what He saith in this place If any man will come after Me, let him deny himself. First He saith that we must deny to ourselves that which is our own, and now that we must even deny ourselves to ourselves. Perchance it is not hard for a man to give up that which is his own, but it is exceeding hard to give up himself. To deny himself his possessions is little but to deny himself himself is a denial exceeding great.

[Lectio9 in 2 loco]
Let when we come unto Him the Lord will have us deny to ourselves even ourselves, since as many of us as are entered into the battle of faith, are entered into a contention against evil spirits. But the evil spirits have nothing of their own in this world, and therefore must we wrestle with them, naked with naked. For if he that is clothed, wrestle with him that is naked, he faileth swiftly, because he hath whereon he that is naked taketh hold. And what are all things earthly but things wherewith the soul is clothed upon? whosoever therefore will wrestle with Satan, let him cast away his clothes, lest he be thereby endangered.
&teDeum

[Lectio7 in 4 loco]
The Lesson is taken from the Holy Gospel according to Matthew
!Matt 10:26-32
At that time, Jesus said unto His disciples: There is nothing covered, that shall not be revealed, and hid, that shall not be known. And so on.
_
Homily by St Hilary, Bishop (of Poitiers.)
!Comm. on Matt Chap. 10
The Lord pointeth to the day of judgment, that day wherein the hidden counsels of the hearts shall be made manifest, and those things which are dark now shall be the subject of all men's knowledge. Therefore He warneth us not to fear threats, nor persuasions, nor the power of such as fight against us since in the day of judgment it will be manifest that all these things are null and void. “And what I tell you in darkness, that speak ye in light; and what ye hear in the ear, that preach ye upon the house-tops.” We read not that the Lord's use was to speak by night, or to tell His doctrine in darkness, but that to the carnal all His words were darkness, and to the unbelieving all His discourse night.

[Lectio8 in 4 loco]
Therefore willeth He that that which He hath spoken, should be freely proclaimed in faith and in confession. Therefore commandeth He that that which He hath told in darkness shall be spoken in light, and that that which He hath made to be heard in the ear should be preached upon the house-tops, that is, with loud and high words. For it behoveth us ever to make God known, and to speak in the light of Apostolic preaching the dark things of the Gospel message, having no fear of them which have power over bodies, but none over our souls, but rather fearing God, Which is able to destroy both body and soul in hell.

[Lectio9 in 4 loco]
Fear not them which kill the body. Therefore we need fear nothing which may chance to our bodies, nor sorrow because of the destruction of the flesh, when, according to the laws of our nature and that from whence we are taken, we are unclothed upon, and become a pure spirit. And, since it behoveth us who are rooted in such a doctrine, freely and constantly to confess God, even were it only because of the alternative whereby we are bound, He saith further: “Whosoever shall confess Me before men, him will I confess also before My Father, Which is in heaven. But whosoever shall deny Me before men, him will I also deny before My Father, Which is in heaven.” Such witnesses as He hath seen us to have been here to His name before men, such a Witness shall we find Him to be hereafter to our names before His Father Which is in heaven.
&teDeum


[Introitus]
!Sir 45,30
v. Uzavřel s ním Pán smlouvu míru a knížetem jej učinil, aby mu zůstala důstojnost kněžství na věky. (Alléluia, alléluia.)
!Ž 131,1
Pamětliv buď, Pane, Davida a všeliké jeho zbožnosti.
&Gloria
v. Uzavřel s ním Pán smlouvu míru a knížetem jej učinil, aby mu zůstala důstojnost kněžství na věky. (Alléluia, alléluia.)

[Lectio]
Čtení z listu sv. Jakuba Apoštola
!Jk 1,12-18
!Každé důstojenství přináší člověku zde na zemi kromě lesku i břímě. Křtem svatým stali jsme se dítkami Božími, jest nám však dosud přemáhati těžká pokušení: korunu života pak obdrží pouze ten, kdo ve všech zkouškách vytrvá. Dnešní světec nám ukazuje, že člověk musí předem přemoci svou vlastní žádostivost; není to snadná věc, ale láska k Bohu nás lehce přes všecky překážky přenese.
Nejmilejší, blahoslavený člověk, jenž vytrvá v pokušení, neboť když bude zkušen, obdrží korunu života, kterou Bůh zaslíbil těm, kteří ho miluji. Nikdo jsa pokoušen neříkej: „Od Boha jsem pokoušen,“ neboť Bůh nemůže býti pokoušen ke zlému, sám pak nepokouší nikoho. Ale každý bývá pokoušen jsa lákán a vnaděn od své vlastní žádosti; potom žádosti počavši, rodí hřích; hřích pak byv dokonán, plodí smrt. Nemylte se tedy, milovaní bratři moji; všecko dání dobré a každý dar dokonalý jest shůry, sestupuje od Otce světel, u něhož není proměny ani z obratu zastínění. Dobrovolně zajisté zplodil nás slovem pravdy, abychom byli jakousi prvotinou tvorstva jeho.

[Graduale]
!Ž 88,21-23
Vyvolil jsem Davida, služebníka svého; svatým olejem svým pomazal jsem jej. Proto ruka má mu bude pomáhati; rámě mé jej posílí.
V. Nic nepořídí nepřítel proti němu, syn nepravosti neuškodí jemu.
Aleluja, aleluja.
!Ž 109,4
V. Ty jsi knězem na věky, podle řádu Melchisedechova. Aleluja.

[Tractus]
!Ž 88,21-23
Vyvolil jsem Davida, služebníka svého; svatým olejem svým pomazal jsem jej. Proto ruka má mu bude pomáhati; rámě mé jej posílí.
V. Nic nepořídí nepřítel proti němu, syn nepravosti neuškodí jemu.
!Ž 20,3-4
Touhu duše jeho jsi vyplnil a přání rtů jeho jsi mu neodepřel.
V. Předešel jsi jej sladkým požehnáním.
V. Vstavil jsi na hlavu jeho korunu z drahého kamení.

[Evangelium]
Pokračování ++ sv. Evangelia podle Lukáše.
!Lk 14,26-33
!Chce-li se kdo státi učedníkem Kristovým, nesmí ničemu na světě dávati přednost před Ním. Ten nejužší krevní anebo i manželský svazek jest překážkou k cestě do Nebe, netrvá-li ve vztahu k Bohu. Kdo nepohrdne světem, t. j. vším, co není ve spojení s Bohem, ten není učedníkem Kristovým, a kdo nepohrdne vlastním životem, žádá-li ho Bůh na něm, ten není ve spojení se svým Mistrem. Každý z nás musi nésti svůj kříž, nezoufejme však a popatřme na život dnešního mučedníka, jak Pán nám pomáhá i v nejkrutějších mukách!
Za onoho času řekl Ježíš k zástupům: „jde-li kdo ke mně a nemá v nenávisti otce svého a matky své i manželky a dítek a bratrův i sester svých, ano i života svého, nemůže býti mým učedníkem. A kdo nenese kříže svého a nejde za mnou, nemůže býti mým učedníkem. Neboť kdo z vás chtěje vystavěti věž, nesedne dříve a nepočítá potřebného nákladu, má-li dosti, aby dostavěl, by snad, kdyby položil základ a nemohl dokončiti, všickni ti, kteří by to viděli, nepočali se mu posmívati řkouce: ,Tento člověk počal stavěti a nemohl dokončiti.‘ Aneb, který král chtěje počíti válku proti jinému králi, nesedne dříve a nepřemýšlí, je-li sto, aby s desíti tisíci utkal se s tim, jenž s dvaceti tisíci táhne na něho? Sic jinak, pokud tento ještě opodál jest, odešle poselství a žádá za jednání o mír. Tak tedy každý z vás, jenž neodříká se všeho co má, nemůže býti mým učedníkem.“

[Offertorium]
!Ž 88,25
Věrnost má a milosrdenství moje bude s ním a ve jménu mém zvelebí se moc jeho. (Alleluia.)

[Secreta]
Oběti tobě, Pane, posvěcené zásluhami svatého N., mučedníka tvého a biskupa, dobrotivě přijmi a dej, aby se nám ustavičnou staly pomocí.
$Per Dominum

[Communio]
!Ž 88,36; 88,37-38
Jednou přisáhl jsem ve Svatyni své: símě jeho zůstane na věky a trůn jeho jako slunce před tváří mou a jako úplněk na věky. A svědek toho na nebi jest věrný.

[Postcommunio]
Občerstvení jsouce účastenstvím na daru svatém, prosíme, Pane, Bože náš, abychom na přímluvu svatého N., mučedníka tvého a biskupa, pocítili účinek toho, co slavíme.
$Per Dominum
