[Officium]
Commune Unius Virginis et Martyris

[Missa]
Loquebar

[Comment]
# V den panny-mučednice
Svaté panenství, jež kráčí neposkvrněno cestou životní jest neohrožené vzhledem k lidem a pokorné vzhledem k Bohu. Kromě lásky k Bohu nemůže čistotu nic přemoci; třebas na výsost něžná, jest přece úžasně silná!

[Ant Vespera]
This is one of the wise virgins, * one chosen out of the number of the careful.;;109
This is one of the wise virgins, * whom the Lord found watching.;;112
This, is one which hath not known the sinful bed, * she shall have fruit in the visitation of holy souls.;;121
Come, O my chosen one, * and I will establish My throne in thee.;;126
She is beautiful * among the daughters of Jerusalem.;;147

[Hymnus Vespera]
v. Ježíši, panen koruno,
v té Matce z Ducha počatý,
jež po porodu pannou jest,
nás vyslyš, snažně prosící.
_
Jenž stádce paseš v liliích,
obklopen panen zástupy,
nevěsty zdobě slávou svou,
nevěstám jsa teď odměnou.
_
Ať kamkoliv kráčíš,panny
Tě provázejí chválami
zpěv provanuvše, šťastně jdou
a hymny sladké skládají.
_
Ó prosíme Tě, štědřeji
nám v smyslech rozněť blaženost,
ať nepoznáme nikdy již
zlé Ničitelky trýznění.
_
Chvála, čest, síla a sláva,
Bohu Otci i Synovi
Svatému též Utěšiteli,
Na věčné věky budoucí.
Amen. 

[Versum 1]
V. Ve své zdobnosti a kráse.
R. Pohlédni, s nadějí přistup, a kraluj.

[Ant 1]
Přistup, Nevěsto Kristova, * a  přijmi korunu, kterou Ti Bůh připravil navěky.

[Oratio]
Bože, jenž jsi mezi ostatními zázraky své moci také slabému pohlaví propůjčil vítězství Mučedníků, popřej milostivě, abychom, když slavíme narozeniny pro nebe svaté N., tvé Panny a Mučednice, podle jejího příkladu k tobě spěli. 
$Per Dominum

[Invit]
The Lord, the King of Virgins, * O come, let us worship.

[Hymnus Matutinum]
v. Son of a virgin, maker of thy mother,
Thou, rod and blossom from a stem unstainèd,
While we a Virgin's triumphs are rehearsing,
Hear our petition!
_
Lo, on thy handmaid fell a two-fold blessing,
Who, in her body vanquishing the weakness,
In that same body, grace from heaven obtaining,
Bore the world witness.
_
Death, nor the rending pains of death appalled her;
Bondage and torment found her undefeated:
So by the shedding of her blood attained she
Heavenly guerdon.
_
Fountain of mercy, hear the prayers she offers;
Purge our offences, pardon our transgressions,
So that hereafter we to thee may render
Praise with thanksgiving.
_
Thou, the All-Father, thou, the One-Begotten,
Thou, Holy Spirit, Three in One co-equal,
Glory be henceforth thine through all the ages,
World without ending.
Amen.

[Ant Matutinum]
O how lovely and glorious * is the generation of the chaste.;;8
Sing for us again and again before this maiden's bed * the tender idylls of the play.;;18
Return, return, O Shulammith * Return, return, that we may look upon thee.;;23
In thy comeliness and thy beauty, * go forward, fare prosperously, and reign.;;44
God shall help * her with His countenance is in the midst of her; she shall not be moved.;;45 
Many waters cannot * quench love.;;47
I am black but comely, * O ye daughters of Jerusalem; therefore hath the King loved me, and brought me into his chamber.;;95
Draw me after thee * we will run after the savour of thy good ointments; thy name is as oil poured forth.;;96
Come, Bride of Christ, * and take the everlasting crown which the Lord hath prepared for thee.;;97

[Nocturn 2 Versum]
V. Bůh jí pomůže úsměvem své tváře.
R. Bůh s ní bude, a nikdy nezakolísá.

[Nocturn 3 Versum]
V. Vyvolil si ji Bůh, již dávno si ji vyvolil.
R. Ve svém stánku jí učinil příbytek.

[Lectio1]
Lesson from the first letter of St. Paul the Apostle to the Corinthians
!1 Cor 7:25-31
25 Now concerning virgins, I have no commandment of the Lord; but I give counsel, as having obtained mercy of the Lord, to be faithful.
26 I think therefore that this is good for the present necessity, that it is good for a man so to be.
27 Art thou bound to a wife? seek not to be loosed. Art thou loosed from a wife? seek not a wife.
28 But if thou take a wife, thou hast not sinned. And if a virgin marry, she hath not sinned: nevertheless, such shall have tribulation of the flesh. But I spare you.
29 This therefore I say, brethren; the time is short; it remaineth, that they also who have wives, be as if they had none;
30 And they that weep, as though they wept not; and they that rejoice, as if they rejoiced not; and they that buy, as though they possessed not;
31 And they that use this world, as if they used it not: for the fashion of this world passeth away.

[Responsory1]
R.br. Come, Bride of Christ, and take the everlasting crown, which the Lord hath prepared for thee, even for thee who for the love of Him hast shed thy blood;
* And art entered with Angels into His garden.
V. Come, O My chosen one, and I will establish My throne in thee, for the King hath reatly desired thy beauty
R. And art entered with Angels into His garden.

[Lectio2]
!1 Cor 7:32-35
32 But I would have you to be without solicitude. He that is without a wife, is solicitous for the things that belong to the Lord, how he may please God.
33 But he that is with a wife, is solicitous for the things of the world, how he may please his wife: and he is divided.
34 And the unmarried woman and the virgin thinketh on the things of the Lord, that she may be holy both in body and in spirit. But she that is married thinketh on the things of the world, how she may please her husband.
35 And this I speak for your profit: not to cast a snare upon you; but for that which is decent, and which may give you power to attend upon the Lord, without impediment.

[Lectio3]
!1 Cor 7:36-40
36 But if any man think that he seemeth dishonoured, with regard to his virgin, for that she is above the age, and it must so be: let him do what he will; he sinneth not, if she marry.
37 For he that hath determined being steadfast in his heart, having no necessity, but having power of his own will; and hath judged this in his heart, to keep his virgin, doth well.
38 Therefore, both he that giveth his virgin in marriage, doth well; and he that giveth her not, doth better.
39 A woman is bound by the law as long as her husband liveth; but if her husband die, she is at liberty: let her marry to whom she will; only in the Lord.
40 But more blessed shall she be, if she so remain, according to my counsel; and I think that I also have the spirit of God.

[Responsory3]
R. In thy comeliness and thy beauty;
* Go forward, fare prosperously, and reign.
V. Grace is poured into thy lips, therefore God hath blessed thee for ever.
R. Go forward, fare prosperously, and reign.
&Gloria
R. Go forward, fare prosperously, and reign.

[Lectio4]
From the Sermons of St. Ambrose, Bishop of Milan. 
!Book. I. on Virgins 
This day is a maiden's Birthday. The love of virginity provoketh us to say somewhat touching maidenhood, lest, if we pass thereby, we should seem to cast a slur on that which was her chief strength. Virginity is not to be praised because it is a grace which is poured forth in Martyrs, but because it is a grace which maketh Martyrs. But what understanding of man can rightly grasp this excellency which riseth above the laws of nature herself? What natural voice can portray a thing which is supernaturally noble? It is a reflection on earth of a glory whose home is in heaven. And it is but that which we may justly look for, when we see her who hath her Husband in heaven, live a life whose model is the life of heaven.

[Responsory4]
R. Because of truth, and meekness, and righteousness;
* And thy right hand shall lead thee wonderfully.
V. In thy comeliness, and thy beauty, go forward, fare prosperously, and reign.
R. And thy right hand shall lead thee wonderfully.

[Lectio5]
It was maidenhood that pierced beyond the clouds, the atmosphere, the Angels, and the stars, and came upon the Word of God in the very bosom of the Father, and sucked Him into her heart. For who, that hath once found such blessedness, would leave it again “For thy name is as ointment poured forth, therefore do the virgins love thee,” and draw thee after them. (Cant. i. 3.) Lastly, it is not I, but the Lord by Whom it is said that they which neither marry nor are given in marriage are as the angels of God in heaven. (Matth. xxii. 30.) Let no man therefore marvel that they which be married unto the Lord of angels should be likened themselves to angels.

[Responsory5]
R. Thou hast loved righteousness, and hated iniquity;
* Therefore God, thy God, hath anointed thee with the oil of gladness.
V. Because of truth, and meekness, and righteousness.
R. Therefore God, thy God, hath anointed thee with the oil of gladness.

[Lectio6]
Who would deny that this is a life which hath come down from heaven, seeing it is a life whereof it is not easy to find an example before God came down to dwell in a Body of clay? Then was it a virgin which conceived Him in her womb, and the Word was made Flesh, that Flesh might be made God. Some will say Concerning Elias also, we find not that he shared in the lusting after a bodily coming-together. Yea and therefore it is that he was carried up in a fiery chariot into heaven therefore is it that he is seen with the Lord amid all the glory of the Transfiguration therefore it is that he is to come as a Forerunner of the Lord's coming again.

[Responsory6]
R. After her shall virgins be brought unto the King, her fellows
* They shall be brought unto thee with gladness and rejoicing.
V. In thy comeliness and thy beauty, go forward, fare prosperously, and reign.
R. They shall be brought unto thee with gladness and rejoicing.
&Gloria
R. They shall be brought unto thee with gladness and rejoicing.

[Lectio7]
From the Holy Gospel according to St. Matthew
!Matt 25:1
At that time, Jesus said to His disciples: The Kingdom of heaven shall be likened unto ten virgins, which took their lamps, and went forth to meet the Bridegroom and the Bride. And so on.
_
Homily by Pope St. Gregory the Great
!12th on the Gospels
Dearly beloved brethren oftentimes do I warn you to fly corrupt conversation, and to keep yourselves unspotted from the world. But the portion which is this day read from the Holy Gospel doth oblige me to say that even to these good things which ye do, ye must needs take all careful heed. Look ye well to it, that, when ye work righteousness, ye do it not as seeking the praise and admiration of men, for if the lust of praise do once creep in, that which seemeth so fair without, loseth its reward within. Behold how the Redeemer speaketh of these ten virgins. He calleth them all virgins, yet entered not all of them into the door of blessedness, for there were some of them who sought outwardly the honour of virginity, but would take no oil within their vessels with their lamps.

[Responsory7]
R. This is one of those wise virgins, whom the Lord found watching, for when she took her lamp, she took oil with her.
* And when the Lord came, she went in with him to the marriage.
V. At midnight there was a cry made: Behold, the Bridegroom cometh, go ye out to meet him.
R. And when the Lord came, she went in with him to the marriage.

[Lectio8]
First of all, it is for us to ask What is the kingdom of Heaven? And wherefore shall the same be likened unto ten virgins, whereof, albeit five were wise, yet five were foolish For if the kingdom of heaven be such that there shall in no wise enter into it anything that defileth, neither whatsoever worketh abomination, or maketh a lie, (Apoc. xxi. 27,) how can it be like unto five virgins which were foolish? But we must know that, in the word of God, the kingdom of heaven doth oftentimes signify the Church as she now is, touching the which the Lord saith in another place “The Son of Man shall send forth His Angels, and they shall gather out of His kingdom all things that offend.” (Matth. xiii. 41.) In that kingdom of Blessedness, wherein peace shall have her perfect reign, there shall be nothing found that offendeth for the angels to gather out.

[Responsory8]
R. At midnight there was a cry made:
* Behold, the Bridegroom cometh, go ye out to meet him.
V. Trim your lamps, O ye wise virgins.
R. Behold, the Bridegroom cometh, go ye out to meet him.
&Gloria
R. Behold, the Bridegroom cometh, go ye out to meet him.

[Lectio9]
The body of every man doth consist of five senses, and five being doubled, is ten. Forasmuch, therefore, as the whole body of the faithful doth consist of two sexes, the Holy Church is likened unto ten virgins. And forasmuch as in the Church the good are for the present mingled with the bad, and the reprobate with the elect, it is rightly said that, of the ten virgins, five are wise and five are foolish. There are many who have self-control, which do keep themselves from lusting after things outward, whose hope beareth them to things inward, who chastise the flesh, who long with intense home-sickness for their Fatherland which is in heaven, who seek an eternal reward, and who will not to receive for their labours the praise of men. These are they who reckon their glory, not in the mouths of men, but in the testimony of their own conscience. And many there be likewise who afflict the body by self-control, and yet who seek for their self-control applause from men.
&teDeum

[Responsory2]
R. Grace is poured into thy lips, therefore;
* God hath blessed thee for ever.
V. In thy comeliness and thy beauty, go forward, fare prosperously, and reign.
R. God hath blessed thee for ever.

[Capitulum Laudes]
!2 Kor 10:17-18
v. Bratři, kdo se chlubí, ať se chlubí v Pánu. Není totiž osvědčen ten, kdo doporučí sám sebe, nýbrž ten, koho doporučí Bůh.
$Deo gratias

[Versum 2]
V. Milost se rozlila na tvých rtech. 
R. Proto ti Bůh požehnal navěky.

[Ant 2]
Království nebeské je podobné * člověku obchodníku, který hledá krásné perly; a když najde jednu cennou, dá vše, co má, a koupí ji.

[Lectio Prima]
!Sir 51:13-14
v. Pane, můj Bože, pozdvihl jsi ze země můj příbytek, a prosila jsem, aby smrt odešla. Vzývala jsem Hospodina, Otce mého Pána, aby mě neopouštěl v den mého ponížení, a v čase pyšných mě nezanechal bez pomoci.

[Responsory Breve Tertia]
R.br. Ve své zdobnosti * a své kráse.
R. Ve své zdobnosti * a své kráse.
V. Pohlédni, s nadějí přistup, a kraluj.
R. A své kráse.
&Gloria
R. Ve své zdobnosti * a své kráse.

[Capitulum Sexta]
!2 Kor 11:2
v. Mám vás totiž tak žárlivě rád jako Bůh. Já jsem přece připravil vaše zasnoubení jedinému muži a musím vás představit Kristu jako čistou pannu.
$Deo gratias

[Responsory Breve Sexta]
R.br. Bůh jí pomůže * úsměvem své tváře.
R. Bůh jí pomůže * úsměvem své tváře.
V. Bůh s ní bude, a nikdy nezakolísá.
R. Úsměvem své tváře.
&Gloria
R. Bůh jí pomůže * úsměvem své tváře.

[Responsory Breve Nona]
R.br. God hath chosen her, * and fore-chosen her.
R. God hath chosen her, * and fore-chosen her.
V. He hath made her to dwell in His tabernacle.
R. And fore-chosen her.
&Gloria
R. God hath chosen her, * and fore-chosen her.

[Lectio1 in 2 loco]
Lesson from the book of Ecclesiasticus
!Sir 51:1-7
1 A prayer of Jesus the son of Sirach. I will give glory to thee, O Lord, O King, and I will praise thee, O God my Saviour. 
2 I will give glory to thy name: for thou hast been a helper and protector to me. 
3 And hast preserved my body from destruction, from the snare of an unjust tongue, and from the lips of them that forge lies, and in the sight of them that stood by, thou hast been my helper. 
4 And thou hast delivered me, according to the multitude of the mercy of thy name, from them that did roar, prepared to devour. 
5 Out of the hands of them that sought my life, and from the gates of afflictions, which compassed me about:
6 From the oppression of the flame which surrounded me, and in the midst of the fire I was not burnt. 
7 From the depth of the belly of hell, and from an unclean tongue, and from lying words, from an unjust king, and from a slanderous tongue:

[Lectio2 in 2 loco]
!Sir 51:8-12
8 My soul shall praise the Lord even to death. 
9 And my life was drawing near to hell beneath. 
10 They compassed me on every side, and there was no one that would help me. I looked for the succour of men, and there was none.
11 I remembered thy mercy, O Lord, and thy works, which are from the beginning of the world. 
12 How thou deliverest them that wait for thee, O Lord, and savest them out of the hands of the nations.

[Lectio3 in 2 loco]
!Sir 51:13-17
13 Thou hast exalted my dwelling place upon the earth and I have prayed for death to pass away. 
14 I called upon the Lord, the father of my Lord, that he would not leave me in the day of my trouble, and in the time of the proud without help. 
15 I will praise thy name continually, and will praise it with thanksgiving, and my prayer was heard.
16 And thou hast saved me from destruction, and hast delivered me from the evil time. 
17 Therefore I will give thanks, and praise thee, and bless the name of the Lord.

[Lectio7 in 3 loco]
From the Holy Gospel according to Matthew
!Matt 19:3-12
In that time, there came to him the Pharisees tempting him, and saying: Is it lawful for a man to put away his wife for every cause? And so on.
_
Homily by St. John Chrysostom, Patriarch of (Constantinople.)
!63th on Matthew.
Seeing that directly to exhort them unto virginity was well-nigh more than they could bear, our Lord seeketh to draw them to the desire thereof, taking occasion by the needfulness of a law against divorce. Then He showeth that virginity is possible, saying There are some eunuchs which were so born from their mother's womb; and there are some eunuchs which were made eunuchs of men; and there be eunuchs which have made themselves eunuchs for the kingdom of heaven's sake. In these words He persuadeth them indirectly to choose virginity, while He teacheth them that such a gift is not so good as to be impossible.

[Lectio8 in 3 loco]
This doctrine He establisheth somewhat thus. Supposing that thou hadst been born a eunuch by nature, or hadst been made a eunuch by the cruelty of men, so that thou hadst no sexual enjoyment, and hadst no credit for having none, what wouldest thou do? Give God thanks therefore, that thou dost, for a reward and a crown, what such others suffer with no reward and no crown yea, and that, rather a lighter burden than the same, and that not only because thou hast the joy of hope, and of knowing that thou doest well, but also because thou art not so battered by storms of desire as they are.

[Lectio9 in 3 loco]
When, therefore, He had spoken of such as are eunuchs by nature, or by mutilation, and are eunuchs vainly and uselessly, unless they also bridle their thoughts, and of such as deny themselves for the kingdom of heaven's sake, He added He that is able to receive it, let him receive it, that He might make them the readier by showing the very sternness of the work, and, in His unspeakable goodness, He would not include any such precept within the requirements of the law, and, by saying this, showeth it to be the more possible, that He might increase the desire of freely choosing it.
&teDeum

[Introitus]
!Ž 118,46-47
v. Mluvila jsem o svědectvích tvých před králi a nebyla jsem zahanbena; a budu rozjímati o přikázáních tvých, která miluji velice. (Aleluja, aleluja.)
!Ž 118,1
Blaze těm, kdož kráčejí neposkvrněni, kteří chodí v zákoně Páně.
&Gloria
v. Mluvila jsem o svědectvích tvých před králi a nebyla jsem zahanbena; a budu rozjímati o přikázáních tvých, která miluji velice. (Aleluja, aleluja.)

[Oratio] (ad missam)
Bože, jenž jsi mezi ostatními zázraky své moci také slabému pohlaví vítězství mučedníků propůjčil, popřej milostivě, abychom svaté N., panny a mučednice tvé, narozeniny slavíce, podle jejího příkladu k tobě spěli.
$Per Dominum

[Lectio]
Čtení z knihy Sirachovcovy
!Sir 51,1-8; 51,12
!Svatá Panna nemusí se báti úkladů a bolesti, které ji připravuje svět, neboť Bůh stojí po jejím boku a vysvobodí ji ze všech zkoušek. Svět myslel, že ji zničil, když zmučil její tělo, zatímco její duše s radostí spěchá do náruče Boží!
Oslavovati budu tě, Pane, Králi, chválit tě, Boha, Spasitela svého. Oslavovat budu jméno tvoje, že jsi byl pomocník a ochránce můj. Vysvobodils tělo mé ze záhuby, z osidla jazyka nešlechetného, a od rtů těch, kteří páchají lež; proti mým nepřátelům zastal ses mne. Dle množství slitování jména svého zbavils mne dravců řvoucích po kořisti, rukou těch, kdož mi o život ukládali, nesčetných soužení, která mne obklíčila, plamene, který mne vůkol tísnivě dusil, z ohně, kterého já jsem nepodpálila; hlubokých útrop pekla a od jazyka zprzněného, řečí lživých před bezbožným králem, ano, jazyka nespravedlivého. Chváliti bude až do smrti Pána má duše. Neboť vytrhuješ toho, kdo v tebe doufá, a z rukou národů jej vysvobozuješ, Hospodine, Bože náš!

[Graduale]
!Ž 44,8
Milovala jsi spravedlnost a nenáviděla jsi nepravosti.
V. Proto pomazal tě Bůh, Bůh tvůj, olejem radosti.
Aleluja, aleluja.
!Ž 44,15; 44,16
V. Panny přivádějí se s ní ke Králi, družky její přivádějí se k tobě za jásotu. Ale1uja.

[GradualeP]
Aleluja, aleluja.
!Ž 44,15; 44,16
V. Panny přivádějí se s ní ke Králi, družky její přivádějí se k tobě za jásotu. Ale1uja.
!Ž 44,5
V. Ve spanilosti své a kráse své povstaň, šťastně pokračuj a vládní. Aleluja.

[Tractus]
!Ž 44,8
Milovala jsi spravedlnost a nenáviděla jsi nepravosti.
V. Proto pomazal tě Bůh, Bůh tvůj, olejem radosti.
_
!Tractus  
Pojď, nevěsto Kristova, vezmi korunu, kterou tobě Pán připravil na věky, pro jehož lásku jsi krev svou vylila.
!Ž 44,8; 44,5
Milovala jsi spravedlnost a nenáviděla jsi nepravosti, proto pomazal tě Bůh, Bůh tvůj, olejem radosti před družkami tvými.
V. Ve spanilosti své a kráse své povstaň, šťastně pokračuj a vládní.

[Evangelium]
Slova ++ sv. Evangelia podle Matouše.
!Mt 25,1-13
!Na tomto světě nemáme kdy odpočívat v duchovním životě, neboť Ženich našich duší může tu chvíli přijíti a žádati od nás, bychom byli na něho připravení.
Za onoho času Pán Ježíš řekl učedníkům svým podobenství toto: „Podobno bude království nebeské desíti pannám, které vzavše lampy své, vyšly naproti ženichovi a nevěstě. Pět z nich bylo pošetilých a pět opatrných; neboť pošetilé vzavše lampy své, nevzaly s sebou oleje, opatrné však vzaly spolu s lampami také olej ve svých nádobách. Když ženich prodléval, zdřímly všecky a usnuly. O půlnoci však nastal křik: ,Aj, ženich přichází; vyjděte mu naproti.“ Tu vstaly všecky panny ty a upravily lampy své. Pošetilé pak řekly opatrným: ,Dejte nám z oleje svého, neboť naše lampy hasnou.‘ Opatrně odpověděly řkouce: ,Nikoli; nedostalo by se nám ani vám; jděte raději ku prodavačům a kupte sobě. Když pak šly nakoupit, přišel ženich, a ty, které byly pohotově, vešly s ním na svatbu; i uzavřeny jsou dveře. Později přišly také ostatní panny řkouce: ,Pane, Pane, otevři nám‘ Ale on odpověděv řekl: ,Amen pravím vám, neznám vás.‘ Bděte tedy, neboť nevíte dne ani hodiny.“

[Offertorium]
!Ž 44,15; 44,16
Panny přivádějí se s ní ke Králi, družky její přivádějí se k tobě za jásotu a radosti; uvádějí se do svatyně Krále Pána. (Aleluja.)

[Secreta]
Přijmi, Pane, dary, které ti o slavnosti svaté N., panny a mučednice tvé, přinášíme,jejíž ochranou doufáme dojíti spásy.
$Per Dominum

[Communio]
!Ž 118,78; 118,80
Zahanbeni buďtež pyšní, protože neprávem mi křivdili; já pak ve přikázáních tvých cvičím se, ve tvých ustanoveních, abych nebyla zahanbena. (Aleluja.)

[Postcommunio]
Nechť nám jsou nápomocna, Pane, přijatá tajemství a na přímluvu svaté N., panny a mučednice tvé, ať učiní, bychom z ustavičné záštity těšiti se mohli.
$Per Dominum
