[Officium]
Officium Dedicationis Ecclesiae

[Missa]
Terribilis

[Ant Vespera]
Domu tvému, Pane, * náleží svatost po všechny dny.;;109
Dům můj, * bude domem modlitby.;;110
Toto je dům Páně * pevně ustanoven, s dobrými základy na pevné skále.;;111
Dobré základy má * dům Páně na pevné skále.;;112
Drahé kameny * jsou všechny tvé zdi, a věže Jerusaléma jsou vystavěny z drahokamů.;;147

[Hymnus Vespera]
v. Město Jerusalém svatý, 
Zvaný míru zjevení, 
Jež postaveno je v nebi 
Z mnoha živých kamenů, 
A Anděli korunován 
Jak nevěsta zdobeno.
_
Právě přichází až z nebe, 
Pro svatební komnatu, 
Připraveno, aby sňatkem 
S Pánem bylo spojeno, 
Ulice a stěny její 
Z nejčistšího zlata jsou.
_
Brány skvějí se perlami, 
Vchody všechny dokořán, 
A na základě svých zásluh 
Uvedeni budou tam
Všichni, kdož pro Krista jméno 
Zde na světě trpějí.
_
Bitím a všemi útlaky 
Vyleštěné kameny, 
Zaujímají svá místa, 
Které ruka umělce
Určila jim na vše věky 
V posvátných těch budovách.
_
Sláva, čest a pocta Bohu 
Ze všech vždy Nejvyššímu, 
Spolu Otci, Synovi i
Duchu Utěšiteli.
Jim náleží chvála a moc
Po všechny věčné věky.
Amen.

[Versum 1]
V. Toto je dům Páně, poctivě vystavěný.
R. S dobrými základy na pevné skále.

[Ant 1]
The Most High hath hallowed His Tabernacle. * For this is the House of God, whereon His Name shall be called, whereof it is written My Name shall be there, saith the Lord.

[Oratio]
Bože, jenž nám každý rok znovu přinášíš den posvěcení tohoto tvého svatého chrámu, a svatými tajemstvími nás vždy zachováváš v bezpečí; vyslyš prosby svého lidu a dej, aby kdokoliv, kdo vkročí do tohoto chrámu, aby prosil o tvá dobrodiní, se radoval z tvého vyslyšení.
$Per Dominum

[Oratio in 2 loco]
Bože, jenž neviditelně obsahuješ úplně všechno, a přece pro spásu lidského rodu viditelně ukazuješ znamení své moci; osvěť tento chrám mocí svého přebývání a dej, aby všichni, kdož sem s prosbami přijdou, v jakémkoliv pokoření k tobě budou volat, obdrželi dobrodiní tvé útěchy.
$Per Dominum

[Invit]
Holiness becometh the house of God. * In her let us worship her Bridegroom, even Christ.

[Ant Matutinum]
Lift up your gates, O ye princes, * and be ye lift up, ye everlasting doors.;;23
The Lord shall be my God, * and this stone shall be called God's house.;;45
Moses built an altar * to the Lord God.;;47
This is none other but the house of God, and this is the gate of heaven.;;83
Jacob beheld a ladder set up on the earth, and the top of it reached to heaven, and the angels of God descending on it. And he said: Surely this place is holy.;;86
Jacob set up the stone for a pillar, and poured oil upon the top of it.;;87
He that dwelleth in the help of the Most High * shall abide under the shadow of the God of heaven.;;90
The Temple of the Lord is holy. * The same is God's workmanship and God's building.;;95
Blessed be the glory of the Lord * from His holy place. Alleluia.;;98

[Nocturn 2 Versum]
V. Můj dům. 
R. Bude se nazývat domem modlitby. 

[Lectio1]
Lesson from the book of Paralipomenon
!2 Chr 7:1-5
1 And when Solomon had made an end of his prayer, fire came down from heaven, and consumed the holocausts and the victims: and the majesty of the Lord filled the house.
2 Neither could the priests enter into the temple of the Lord, because the majesty of the Lord had filled the temple of the Lord.
3 Moreover all the children of Israel saw the fire coming down, and the glory of the Lord upon the house: and falling down with their faces to the ground, upon the stone pavement, they adored and praised the Lord: because he is good, because his mercy endureth for ever.
4 And the king and all the people sacrificed victims before the Lord.
5 And king Solomon offered a sacrifice of twenty-two thousand oxen, and one hundred and twenty thousand rams: and the king and all the people dedicated the house of God.

[Responsory1]
R. When the Temple was dedicated the people sang praise;
* And sweet in their mouths was the sound.
V. The Lord's house is established in the top of the mountains; and all nations shall flow unto it.
R. And sweet in their mouths was the sound.

[Lectio2]
!2 Chr 7:6-9
6 And the priests stood in their offices: and the Levites with the instruments of music of the Lord, which king David made to praise the Lord: because his mercy endureth for ever, singing the hymns of David by their ministry: and the priests sounded with trumpets before them, and all Israel stood.
7 Solomon also sanctified the middle of the court before the temple of the Lord: for he offered there the holocausts, and the fat of the peace offerings: because the brazen altar, which he had made, could not hold the holocausts and the sacrifices and the fat:
8 And Solomon kept the solemnity at that time seven days, and all Israel with him, a very great congregation, from the entrance of Emath to the torrent of Egypt.
9 And he made on the eighth day a solemn assembly, because he had kept the dedication of the altar seven days, and had celebrated the solemnity seven days.

[Responsory2]
R. The Lord's house is established in the top of the mountains, and exalted above the hills;
* And all nations shall flow unto it, and shall say: Glory be to thee, O Lord!
V. They shall doubtless come again with rejoicing, bringing their sheaves with them.
R. And all nations shall flow unto it, and shall say: Glory be to thee, O Lord!

[Lectio3]
!2 Chr 7:11-16
11 And Solomon finished the house of the Lord, and the king's house, and all that he had designed in his heart to do, in the house of the Lord, and in his own house, and he prospered.
12 And the Lord appeared to him by night, and said: I have heard thy prayer, and I have chosen this place to myself for a house of sacrifice.
13 If I shut up heaven, and there fall no rain, or if I give orders, and command the locust to devour the land, or if I send pestilence among my people:
14 And my people, upon whom my name is called, being converted, shall make supplication to me, and seek out my face, and do penance for their most wicked ways: then will I hear from heaven, and will forgive their sins and will heal their land.
15 My eyes also shall be open, and my ears attentive to the prayer of him that shall pray in this place.
16 For I have chosen, and have sanctified this place, that my name may be there for ever, and my eyes and my heart may remain there perpetually.

[Responsory3]
R. O Lord, bless this house which I have built unto thy name. whosoever shall come unto this place and pray, then
* Hear thou from the excellent throne of thy glory.
V. O Lord, if thy people turn and pray toward thy sanctuary.
R. Hear thou from the excellent throne of thy glory.
&Gloria
R. Hear Thou from the excellent throne of thy glory.

[Lectio4]
From the Sermons of St. Augustine, Bishop (of Hippo.)
!252nd for the Season.
Dearly beloved brethren, as often as we keep the Dedication-Feast of some Altar or Church, if we think faithfully and carefully, and live holily and righteously, that which is done in temples made with hands, is done in our soul by a spiritual building. He at the Dedication of the Temple. lied not who said: The temple of God is holy; which temple ye are (i Cor. iii. 17,) and again: Know ye not that your body is the temple of the Holy Ghost, Which is in you, (vi. 19.) And therefore, dearly beloved brethren, since by the grace of God, without any foregoing deserts of our own, we have been made meet to become the Temple of God, let us work as hard as we can, with His help, that our Lord may not find in His Temple, that is, in us, anything to offend the eyes of His Majesty.

[Responsory4]
R. If they pray toward this place,
* Forgive the sin of thy people, O God, and teach them the good way wherein they should walk, and manifest forth thy glory in this place.
V. Give ear, O Shepherd of Israel, thou that leadest Joseph like a flock, thou that sittest upon the cherubim.
R. Forgive the sin of thy people, O God, and teach them the good way wherein they should walk, and manifest forth thy glory in this place.

[Lectio5]
Let the Tabernacle of our heart be swept clean of vices and filled with virtues. Let it be locked to the devil, and thrown open to Christ. Yea, let us so work, that we may be able to open the door of the kingdom of heaven with the key of good works. For even as evil works are so many bolts and bars to close against us the entrance into life, so beyond doubt are good works the key thereto. And therefore, dearly beloved brethren, let each one look into his own conscience, and when he findeth the wounds of guilt there, let him first strive by prayers, fasting, or alms deeds to purge his conscience, and so let him dare to take the Eucharist.

[Responsory5]
R. How dreadful is this place!
* Surely this is none other but the house of God, and this is the gate of heaven.
V. This is the house of God, stoutly builded, well founded upon a sure rock.
R. Surely this is none other but the house of God, and this is the gate of heaven.

[Lectio6]
For if he acknowledge his iniquity, and withdraw himself from the Altar of God, he will soon attain unto the mercy of the pardon of God, for, as he that exalted himself shall be abased, so shall he that humbleth himself be exalted. (Luke xiv. n.) He who, as I have said, acknowledging his iniquity, withdraweth himself through lowliness from the Altar of the Church, till he have mended his life, need have but little fear that he will be excommunicated from the eternal marriage supper in heaven.

[Responsory6]
R. Jacob rose up early in the morning, and set up the stone for a pillar, and poured oil upon the top of it, and vowed a vow unto the Lord.
* Surely this place is holy, and I knew it not.
V. And Jacob awaked out of his sleep, and he said
R. Surely this place is holy, and I knew it not.
&Gloria
R. Surely this place is holy, and I knew it not.

[Lectio7]
From the Holy Gospel according to Luke
!Luke 19:1-10
At that time: Jesus entered and passed through Jericho. And, behold, there was a man named Zacchaeus, which was the chief among the publicans, and he was rich. And so on.
_
Homily by St. Ambrose, Bishop (of Milan.)
!Bk. viii. on Luke.
Zacchaeus was little of stature, that is, he was not raised aloft among men by nobility of birth, and, like the most of the world, he possessed few merits. When he heard that the Lord and Saviour, Who had come unto His Own, and Whom His Own had not received, (John i. 11,) was coming, he desired to see Him. But the sight of Jesus is not easy; to any on the earth it is impossible. And since Zacchaeus had neither the Prophets, nor yet the Law, as a gracious help to his nature, he climbed up into a sycamore tree, raising his feet above the vanity of the Jews, and straightening the crooked branches of his former life, and therefore he received Jesus to lodge within his house.

[Responsory7]
R. My house shall be called the house of prayer, saith the Lord. Therein, he that asketh, receiveth; he that seeketh, findeth;
* And to him that knocketh, it shall be opened.
V. Ask, and ye shall receive; seek, and ye shall find.
R. And to him that knocketh, it shall be opened.

[Lectio8]
He did well to climb up into a tree, that a good tree might bring forth good fruits, (Matth. vii. 17,) and that the slip of the wild olive, grafted, contrary to nature, into the good olive, might bring forth the fruits of the law. (Rom. xi. 17, 24.) For the root is holy, however unprofitable the branches. Their barren beauty hath now been overshadowed by the belief of the Gentiles in the Resurrection, as by a material upgrowth. Zacchaeus, then, was in the sycamore tree, and the blind man by the way-side, (xviii. 35.) For the one, Jesus stood waiting to show mercy, and asked him before He healed him, what he would that He should do for him; being unbidden of the other, He bade Himself to be his Guest, knowing how rich was the reward of receiving Him. Nevertheless, albeit He had heard no words of invitation, yet had He seen how his heart went.

[Responsory8]
R. All thy walls are of stones most precious.
* The towers of Jerusalem shall be built up with jewels.
V. The gates of Jerusalem shall be built up with the sapphire stone, and the emerald, and all her walls round about with stones most precious.
R. The towers of Jerusalem shall be built up with jewels.
&Gloria
R. The towers of Jerusalem shall be built up with jewels.

[Lectio9]
But lest we should seem haughtily to pass by the poor blind man, and to hurry on to the rich one, let us stand waiting for him, as the Lord stood and waited; let us ask of him, as Christ asked of him. Let us ask, because we are ignorant; Christ asked, because He knew. Let us ask, that we may know whence he received his cure; Christ asked, that all of us may know from one example where through we are to earn a sight of the Lord. Christ asked, that we might believe that none, save they that confess Him, can be saved.
&teDeum

[Capitulum Laudes]
!Zjevení 21:2
v. Viděl jsem svaté město, nový Jerusalém, sestupující z nebe, ozdobený jako nevěsta pro svého ženicha.
$Deo gratias

[Hymnus Laudes]
v. Jak úhelný a základní 
Kámen Kristus poslán byl, 
Aby on ve zdech všech domů 
Spojoval své kameny, 
A Sion svatý jej přijal 
Neb v něm věříc zůstává.
_
Celé ono svaté, Bohem, 
Též milované město, 
Plné je písní a chvály, 
I zpěvu radostného,
Boha v Trojici jednoho 
S nadšením vším velebí.
_
V tento chrám, nejvyšší Bože, 
prosíme tě, přijdi již,
A s laskavou dobrotou svou 
Přijmi přání prosících, 
A přehojné požehnání 
Vylej nám zde v plnosti.
_
Zde nechť si zaslouží všichni 
Vyslyšení proseb svých, 
A když obdrží, co chtěli, 
Se Svatými navěky,
Do Ráje jsou uvedeni,
A spočinou v pokoji.
_
Sláva, čest a pocta Bohu 
Ze všech vždy Nejvyššímu, 
Spolu Otci, Synovi i
Duchu Utěšiteli.
Jim náleží chvála a moc
Po všechny věčné věky.
Amen.

[Ant 2]
Zachee, * rychle slez ze stromu, neboť je třeba, abych dnes zůstal ve tvém domě; a on ihned slezl, a přijal jej s radostí do svého domu; Dnes Bůh připravil spásu tomuto domu, alleluja.

[Lectio Prima]
!Zjevení 21:4-4
v. Pak setře Bůh každou slzu z jejich očí; a smrti již více nebude, ani pláče, ani nářku, ani bolesti již více nebude, neboť odejdou již předtím. A řekl ten, který seděl na trůnu: „Hle, vše učiním nové.“

[Responsory Breve Tertia]
R.br. Domu tvému, Pane, * náleží svatost.
R. Domu tvému, Pane, * náleží svatost.
V. Po všechny dny.
R. Náleží svatost
&Gloria
R. Domu tvému, Pane, * náleží svatost.

[Versum Tertia]
V. Toto místo je svaté, na němž se modlil kněz.
R. Za přestoupení a hříchy lidu.

[Capitulum Sexta]
!Zjevení 21:3
v. Pak jsem uslyšel veliký hlas od trůnu, který pravil: „Hle stánek Boží s lidmi, a Bůh s nimi přebývá; a oni jsou jeho lidem, i sám Bůh s nimi jim bude Bohem.“ 
$Deo gratias

[Responsory Breve Sexta]
R.br. This place is holy, * wherein the Priest prayeth.
R. This place is holy, * wherein the Priest prayeth
V. For the pardon of the transgressions and offences of the people.
R. The Priest prayeth.
&Gloria
R. This place is holy, * wherein the Priest prayeth.

[Responsory Breve Nona]
R.br. Toto je dům Páně, * poctivě vystavěný.
R. Toto je dům Páně, * poctivě vystavěný.
V. S dobrými základy na pevné skále.
R. Poctivě vystavěný.
&Gloria
R. Toto je dům Páně, * poctivě vystavěný.

[Versum Nona]
V. Dobře ustavený je dům Páně.
R. Na pevné skále.

[Versum 3]
V. Domu tvému, Pane, náleží svatost.
R. Po všechny dny.

[Ant 3]
Ó, jak strašné je * toto místo, opravdu to může být jen dům Boží a brána nebeská.
