[Rank]
Die III infra octavam Pentecostes;;Duplex I classis;;7;;ex Pasc7-0

[RankNewcal]
Feria III post Pentecostes;;Feria;;1;;

[Rule]
ex Pasc7-0;
9 lectiones
Psalmi Dominica;
Antiphonas horas 
Psalm5 Vespera=116
Hymnus Tertia

[Lectio1]
Lesson from the book of Joel
!Joel 2:23-26
23 And you, O children of Sion, rejoice, and be joyful in the Lord your God: because he hath given you a teacher of justice, and he will make the early and the latter rain to come down to you as in the beginning. 
24 And the floors shall be filled with wheat, and the presses shall overflow with wine and oil. 
25 And I will restore to you the ears which the locust, and the bruchus, and the mildew, and the palmerworm have eaten; my great host which I sent upon you.
26 And you shall eat in plenty, and shall be filled: and you shall praise the name of the Lord your God, who hath done wonders with you, and my people shall not be confounded for ever. 

[Lectio2]
!Joel 2:27-29
27 And you shall know that I am in the midst of Israel: and I am the Lord your God, and there is none besides: and my people shall not be confounded for ever. 
28 And it shall come to pass after this, that I will pour out my spirit upon all flesh: and your sons and your daughters shall prophesy: your old men shall dream dreams, and your young men shall see visions. 
29 Moreover upon my servants and handmaids in those days I will pour forth my spirit. 

[Lectio3]
!Joel 2:30-32
30 And I will shew wonders in heaven; and in earth, blood, and fire, and vapour of smoke.
31 The sun shall be turned into darkness, and the moon into blood: before the great and dreadful day of the Lord doth come. 
32 And it shall come to pass, that every one that shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved: for in mount Sion, and in Jerusalem shall be salvation, as the Lord hath said, and in the residue whom the Lord shall call. 

[Lectio4]
Sermon by John Chrisostom
!Sermo I in Pentecost
On this day, earth became heaven for us, not by the coming down of the stars
from the sky to the earth, but by the raising up of the Apostles to heaven: for the grace of the Holy Spirit was plenteously poured forth, and changed the whole world into heaven, not by altering its essential nature, but by directing its will aright.

[Lectio5]
The Spirit found a publican, and made him an Evangelist: he found a persecutor, and changed him into an Apostle: he found a thief, and brought him into Paradise: he found a harlot, and made her one with the Virgins: he found wise men and made them Evangelists: he put wickedness to flight, and replaced it with kindness: he destroyed slavery, and introduced freedom, he forgave the debt, and brought instead the grace of God. Thus earth became heaven, and this I can not repeat too often.

[Lectio6]
And suddenly there came a sound from heaven as of a rushing mighty wind, and it filled all the house where they were sitting. And there appeared unto them cloven tongues as of fire. If it were fire, how are they not burnt ? asketh the jew: and I too will ask the Jew, If it were fire, how is it that the bush, which was brittle wood, was not consumed ? What is stronger than fire ? What is poorer than a bush ? And yet it was not burnt, nor did the fire go out.
And how was it that the bodies of the Three Children were not devoured by the flame, but that the fiery furnace became like the dew of heaven, and the glowing coals like roses ? In the conflict between fire and the body, the body gained the victory: and that which of its nature was softer than wax became harder than iron. It behoveth me thus to interpret old events, namely those which went before, that ye may receive the truth. For the Holy Spirit appeared in the likeness of fire, because of the swiftness of the mind's movement: yet not for that cause alone, but because as fire burneth up the thorns, so doth the Spirit also destroy sins. Daniel was put in the lions' den, and the power of God stopped their fierce raging.

[Lectio7]
From the Holy Gospel according to John
!John 10:1-10
At that time Jesus said unto the Pharisees Amen, amen, I say unto you, he~
that entereth not by tin door into the sheep-fold, but climbeth up some other~
way, the same is a the and a robber but he that entereth by the door is the~
shepherd of th sheep. And so on.
_
Homily by St Austin, Bishop of Hippo.
!45 th Tract on John.
In the words of the Gospel which are this day read, the Lord has spoken unto us~
in similitudes, touching His flock, and the Door whereby entry is made into~
their fold. The Pagans therefore may say, "We have good lives," but if they enter~
not in the Door, what doth that profit them whereof they make their boast good~
life is profitable to a man if lead unto life everlasting, but if he not to have~
life everlasting, what shall his good life profit him Neither indeed can it be~
truly said that they live good lives, who are either so blinded as not to know,~
or so puffed up as to despise, the end of a good life. And no man can* have a~
true and certain hope of life everlasting, unless he know the true Life, Which~
is Christ, and enter in by that Door into the sheepfold.

[Lectio8]
There are many such, who try to persuade men to live good lives but not to be~
Christians. These are they who would fain "climb up some other way," "for to~
kill and to destroy," and are not as the Good Shepherd, Who is come to keep and~
to save. There have been philosophers who have treated many subtle questions of~
right and wrong, who have been the authors of many distinctions and definitions,~
who have completed many exceedingly clever arguments, who have filled many books,~
and have proclaimed their own wisdom with braying trumpets. These dared to say~
to men " Follow us embrace our school of thought, and you will find therein~
the secret of an happy life." But these were not of them who enter in by the~
Door they came not but for to steal, and to kill, and to destroy.

[Lectio9]
Thouching these, what shall I say? Behold, the Pharisees themselves read of~
Christ, and therefore talked of Christ they looked for His coming, and when He~
came, they knew Him not. They boasted that they themselves were among the Seers,~
that is, of the wise ones, and they denied Christ, and entered not in by the~
Door. Therefore they, if they led away any, led them away only to kill and to~
destroy, not to free them. So much for them. Now let us see if all they who~
boast the name of Christian enter in by the Door. Some there are, and their~
number cannot be reckoned, who not only boast that they themselves are among the~
Seers, but would fain appear as though their hearts were enlightened by Christ~
but they are heretics.

[Ant 2]
I am the Door * saith the Lord by Me if any man enter in, he shall be saved,~
and shall find pasture. Alleluia.

[Oratio 2]
O Lord, we beseech thee, that thy Holy Spirit may dwell in us in much power,~
mercifully cleansing our hearts, and shielding us from all things hurtful.
$Per Dominum eiusdem

[Ant 3]
Peace I leave with you * My peace I give unto you not as the world giveth,~
give I unto you. Alleluia.


[LectioE]
Continuation of the Holy Gospel according to John
!John 10:1-10
10:1 AMEN, amen I say to you: He that entereth not by the door into the sheepfold, but climbeth up another way, the same is a thief and a robber.
10:2 But he that entereth in by the door is the shepherd of the sheep.
10:3 To him the porter openeth; and the sheep hear his voice: and he calleth his own sheep by name, and leadeth them out.
10:4 And when he hath let out his own sheep, he goeth before them: and the sheep follow him, because they know his voice.
10:5 But a stranger they follow not, but fly from him, because they know not the voice of strangers.
10:6 This proverb Jesus spoke to them. But they understood not what he spoke to them.
10:7 Jesus therefore said to them again: Amen, amen I say to you, I am the door of the sheep.
10:8 All others, as many as have come, are thieves and robbers: and the sheep heard them not.
10:9 I am the door. By me, if any man enter in, he shall be saved: and he shall go in, and go out, and shall find pastures.
10:10 The thief cometh not, but for to steal, and to kill, and to destroy. I am come that they may have life, and may have it more abundantly.
$Te decet
