[Rank]
Feria Sexta infra Hebdomadam IV in Quadragesima;;Feria major;;2

[Rule]

[Lectio1]
From the holy Gospel according to John
!John 11:1-45
In that time there was a certain man sick, named Lazarus, of Bethania, of the~
town of Mary and Martha her sister. And so on.
_
Homily by St Austin, Bishop (of Hippo.)
!49 Tract on John.
Ye remember that in our last reading we learnt how that the Lord escaped out of~
the hands of them which took up stones to stone Him, and went away again beyond~
Jordan, into the place where John at first baptized. (John x. 31, 39, 40- )~
While, then, the Lord still tarried there, Lazarus was sick at Bethany, which~
was a town near to Jerusalem. It was that Mary which anointed the Lord with~
ointment, and wiped His Feet with her hair, whose brother Lazarus was sick.~
Therefore his sisters sent unto Him. We know already whither it was that they~
sent, for we know where Jesus was He was gone away again beyond Jordan. His~
sisters sent unto Him, saying Lord, behold, he whom Thou lovest is sick in~
order that, if He so pleased, He might come and free him from his sickness. But~
Jesus healed not, that He might afterward quicken.

[Responsory1]
@TemporaM/Quad4-0:Responsory4

[Lectio2]
What therefore sent his sisters to say? Lord, behold, he whom Thou lovest is~
sick and no more. They said not Come for Jesus loved him; and to tell Him~
that he was sick was enough. They dared not to say Come, and heal him they~
dared not to say Speak the word where Thou art, and it shall be done here. And~
wherefore should they not have said this if they had the faith which won the~
Centurion so much praise? He had said Lord, I am not worthy that Thou~
shouldest come under my roof; but speak the word only, and my servant shall be~
healed. (Matth. viii. 8.) But they said none of these things, only Lord,~
behold, he whom Thou lovest is sick It is enough that Thou shouldest know it~
Thou art not one that lovest and leavest.

[Responsory2]
@TemporaM/Quad4-0:Responsory5

[Lectio3]
But some man will say How shall Lazarus be a type of the sinner, and yet the~
Lord so love him? Let such an one hear the words of the same Lord, which He said I~
am not come to call the righteous, but sinners. (Matth. ix. 13.) For if God had~
not loved sinners, He had not come down from heaven to earth. When Jesus heard~
that, He said This sickness is not unto death, but for the glory of God, that~
the Son of God might be glorified thereby. Such a glorification is no increase~
of majesty for Him, but of profit for us. He therefore meaneth to say This~
sickness is not unto death, but for the working of a miracle, the which being~
wrought, if men will thereby believe in Christ, they shall escape the real~
death. Note especially how the Lord doth in this place declare Himself to be God,~
as it were by implication, for the sake of some which say that He is not the Son~
of God.

[Responsory3]
@TemporaM/Quad4-0:Responsory6

[Ant 2]
Our friend Lazarus sleepeth * let us go and awake him out of sleep.

[Oratio 2]
O God, who dost quicken the whole world anew by thine unspeakable Sacraments,~
grant, we beseech thee, that thy Church may both profit by whatsoever Thou hast~
ordained touching the things which are eternal, nor be comfortless of such help~
as is needful unto her touching the things which are temporal.
$Per Dominum

[Ant 3]
Lord, if Thou hadst been here * Lazarus had not died; behold, by this time he~
stinketh, for he hath lain in the grave four days already.

[Oratio 3]
Grant, we beseech thee, O Almighty God, unto all us who know that we are weak,~
and who trust in thee, because we know that Thou art strong, the gladsome help~
of thy loving-kindness, both here in time and hereafter in eternity.
$Per Dominum


[LectioE]
v. Continuation of the Holy Gospel according to John
!John 11:1-45
11:1 NOW there was a certain man sick, named Lazarus, of Bethania, of the town of Mary and Martha her sister.
11:2 (And Mary was she that anointed the Lord with ointment, and wiped his feet with her hair: whose brother Lazarus was sick.)
11:3 His sisters therefore sent to him, saying: Lord, behold, he whom thou lovest is sick.
11:4 And Jesus hearing it, said to them: This sickness is not unto death, but for the glory of God: that the Son of God may be glorified by it.
11:5 Now Jesus loved Martha, and her sister Mary, and Lazarus.
11:6 When he had heard therefore that he was sick, he still remained in the same place two days.
11:7 Then after that, he said to his disciples: Let us go into Judea again.
11:8 The disciples say to him: Rabbi, the Jews but now sought to stone thee: and goest thou thither again?
11:9 Jesus answered: Are there not twelve hours of the day? If a man walk in the day, he stumbleth not, because he seeth the light of this world:
11:10 But if he walk in the night, he stumbleth, because the light is not in him.
11:11 These things he said; and after that he said to them: Lazarus our friend sleepeth; but I go that I may awake him out of sleep.
11:12 His disciples therefore said: Lord, if he sleep, he shall do well.
11:13 But Jesus spoke of his death; and they thought that he spoke of the repose of sleep.
11:14 Then therefore Jesus said to them plainly: Lazarus is dead.
11:15 And I am glad, for your sakes, that I was not there, that you may believe: but let us go to him.
11:16 Thomas therefore, who is called Didymus, said to his fellow disciples: Let us also go, that we may die with him.
11:17 Jesus therefore came, and found that he had been four days already in the grave.
11:18 (Now Bethania was near Jerusalem, about fifteen furlongs off.)
11:19 And many of the Jews were come to Martha and Mary, to comfort them concerning their brother.
11:20 Martha therefore, as soon as she heard that Jesus had come, went to meet him: but Mary sat at home.
11:21 Martha therefore said to Jesus: Lord, if thou hadst been here, my brother had not died.
11:22 But now also I know that whatsoever thou wilt ask of God, God will give it thee.
11:23 Jesus saith to her: Thy brother shall rise again.
11:24 Martha saith to him: I know that he shall rise again, in the resurrection at the last day.
11:25 Jesus said to her: I am the resurrection and the life: he that believeth in me, although he be dead, shall live:
11:26 And every one that liveth, and believeth in me, shall not die for ever. Believest thou this?
11:27 She saith to him: Yea, Lord, I have believed that thou art Christ the Son of the living God, who art come into this world.
11:28 And when she had said these things, she went, and called her sister Mary secretly, saying: The master is come, and calleth for thee.
11:29 She, as soon as she heard this, riseth quickly, and cometh to him.
11:30 For Jesus was not yet come into the town: but he was still in that place where Martha had met him.
11:31 The Jews therefore, who were with her in the house, and comforted her, when they saw Mary that she rose up speedily and went out, followed her, saying: She goeth to the grave to weep there.
11:32 When Mary therefore was come where Jesus was, seeing him, she fell down at his feet, and saith to him: Lord, if thou hadst been here, my brother had not died.
11:33 Jesus, therefore, when he saw her weeping, and the Jews that were come with her, weeping, groaned in the spirit, and troubled himself,
11:34 And said: Where have you laid him? They say to him: Lord, come and see.
11:35 And Jesus wept.
11:36 The Jews therefore said: Behold how he loved him.
11:37 But some of them said: Could not he that opened the eyes of the man born blind, have caused that this man should not die?
11:38 Jesus therefore again groaning in himself, cometh to the sepulchre. Now it was a cave; and a stone was laid over it.
11:39 Jesus saith: Take away the stone. Martha, the sister of him that was dead, saith to him: Lord, by this time he stinketh, for he is now of four days.
11:40 Jesus saith to her: Did not I say to thee, that if thou believe, thou shalt see the glory of God?
11:41 They took therefore the stone away. And Jesus lifting up his eyes said: Father, I give thee thanks that thou hast heard me.
11:42 And I knew that thou hearest me always; but because of the people who stand about have I said it, that they may believe that thou hast sent me.
11:43 When he had said these things, he cried with a loud voice: Lazarus, come forth.
11:44 And presently he that had been dead came forth, bound feet and hands with winding bands; and his face was bound about with a napkin. Jesus said to them: Loose him, and let him go.
11:45 Many therefore of the Jews, who were come to Mary and Martha, and had seen the things that Jesus did, believed in him.
$Te decet
