V. Hail Mary full of grace, the Lord is with thee.
R. Blessed art thou amongst women, and blessed is the fruit of thy womb, Jesus.

V. Convert us, O God, our Saviour.
R. And turn away Thy wrath from us.
R. Incline unto my aid, O God.
R. O Lord, make haste to help me.

Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Ghost Ghost. 
As it was in the beginning, is now, and ever shall be, world without end. Amen.

Alleluia or Praise be to Thee, O Lord, King of eternal glory.

;;131

;;132

;;133

#Little Chapter
!Eccli. 24.  
I am the mother of fair love, and of fear, and of knowledge, and of holy hope.
R. Thanks be to God.

R. Intercede for us, O holy Virgin of virgins, * Mary, Mother of God.
V. That we may be made worthy of the promises of Christ.
Repeat: Mary, Mother of God.
V. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Ghost.
Repeat: Intercede for us, O holy Virgin of virgins, * Mary, Mother of God.

#Hymn
Virgin, all excelling,
Mildest of the mild,
Free from sin preserve us,
Meek and underfil'd.

Keep our life all spotless,
Make our way secure:
Till we find in Jesus
Joys that shall endure.

Praise to God the Father,
Honour to the Son,
To the Holy Spirit
Be the glory one.
Amen.

V. Afrer childbirth, O Virgin, thou didst remain undefiled.
R. Mother of God, intercede for us.

#Canticle of Simeon
Now thou dost dismiss Thy servant, O Lord, * according to Thy word in peace,
Because my eyes have seen * Thy salvation, Which Thou hast prepared * before the face of all people:
A light to the revelation of the gentiles, * and the glory of Thy people Israel.

Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
As it was in the beginning, is now, and ever shall be, * world without end. Amen.

#Antiphon
!Kneel during the following antiphon.
We fly to thy patronage, O holy Mother of God, despise not our petitions in our necessities, but deliver us from all dangers, O ever blessed Virgin.

V. O Lord, hear my prayer.
R. And let my cry come unto Thee.

Let us pray.
Grant, O merciful God, protection for our frailty: that we who celebrate the memory of the holy Mother of God may. by the help of her intercession, arise from our sins.
Through the same Jesus Christ our Lord, Thy Son, who with Thee liveth and reigneth in the unity of the Holy Ghost, God, world without end.
R. Amen.
V. O Lord, hear my prayer.
R. And let my cry come unto Thee.

V. Let us bless the Lord.
R. Thanks be to God.

!When the Office is said in choir, the Salve and O Lumen should be sung. All should assist at the daily procession which occurs during them.
!Yet those who are prevented, may say them privately in the order following, or terminate the Office at this point with the customary Ave Maria.

#Salve Regina
Hail, holy Queen, mother of mercy, hail, our life, our sweetness, and our hope; to thee do we cry, poor banished children of Eve, to thee do we send up our sighs,
mourning and weeping in this valley of tears. Turn then, most gracious advocate, thine eyes of mercy towards us, and after this, our exile, show unto us the blessed fruit of thy womb, Jesus.
O clement, O loving, O sweet Virgin Mary. (Alleluia.)

V. Make me worthy to praise thee, holy Virgin. (Alleluia.)
R. Give me strength against thine enemies. (Alleluia.)

Let us pray.
Grant, we beseech Thee, O Lord God, that we Thy servants, may enjoy continual health of mild and body; and that through the glorious intercession of the blessed Mary, ever virgin, we may be delivered from present
sorrow and hereafter enjoy eternal happiness.
Through Christ our Lord.
R. Amen.

!The Litany of the Blessed Virgin and the Involata follow the Salve on Saturdays.

#O Lumen.
O Light of the Church, doctor of truth, rose of patience, ivory of chastity, freely hast thou dispensed the water of wisdom: herald of grace, unite us to the blessed. (Alleluia.)

V. Pray for us, blessed Father Dominic. (Alleluia.)
R. That we may be made worthy of the promises of Christ. (Alleluia.)

Let us pray.
Grant, we beseech Thee, almighty God, that we who are opressed with the weight of our sins may be relieved by the intercession of Thy confessor and our Father, the blessed Dominic. 
Through Christ our Lord.
R. Amen.

V. Hail Mary full of grace, the Lord is with thee.
R. Blessed art thou amongst women, and blessed is the fruit of thy womb, Jesus.
