[Rank]
Die VI infra octavam Paschæ;;Semiduplex I class;;6;;ex Pasc0-0

[Rule]
ex Pasc0-0;
1 nocturn;
Omit Hymnus Preces Suffragium;
Minores sine Antiphona;
Capitulum Versum 2;
Psalmi Dominica;

[Ant Matutinum]
I am who I am * and my counsel is not with the ungodly, my will is in the law of God, alleluia;;1
I asked my Father * alleluia, and he gave me nations, alleluia, as inheritance, alleluia;;2
I have slept * and have taken my rest: and I have risen up, because the Lord hath protected me. alleluia, alleluia;;3
R. The Lord is risen, indeed. alleluia
V. And hath appeared to Simon, alleluia. 

[Lectio1]
Continuation of the Holy Gospel according to Matthew
!Matt 28:16-20.
At That time: And the eleven disciples went into Galilee, unto the mountain where Jesus had appointed them. And follows.
_
Homily by St Jerome, Priest (at Bethlehem.)
!Bk. iv. Comm. on the end of Matth.
After His Resurrection Jesus was seen on a mountain in Galilee, and there He was worshipped; and, albeit some doubted, their doubts have led to a further establishing of our faith. Then He showed Himself more openly unto Thomas, and made him handle the Side That was pierced with the spear, and the Hands wherein were the holes of the nails. And Jesus came and spake unto them, saying : All power is given unto Me in heaven and in earth. Yea, all power is given unto Him Who but a little while before had been crucified, and buried in the grave, and had lain among the dead, but Who also had risen again. Power is given unto Him in heaven and in earth, that He Who of everlasting had been King of heaven, might have a Monarchy on earth also, through the faith of them which believe in Him.

[Responsory1]
R. After that our Lord Jesus was risen again, He came and stood in the midst of His disciples, and said unto them
* Peace be unto you. Alleluia. Then were the disciples glad, when they saw the Lord. Alleluia.
V. The first day of the week, when the doors were shut where the disciples were assembled, came Jesus, and stood in the midst, and said unto them :
R. Peace be unto you. Alleluia. Then were the disciples glad, when they saw the Lord. Alleluia.

[Lectio2]
Go ye therefore and teach all nations, baptizing them in the Name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost. First, they teach all nations; then, they wash with water them whom they have taught. For it is impossible for the body to receive the Sacrament of Baptism, unless the mind first receive the truth of the faith. And they are baptized In the Name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost for, even as the Godhead of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost, is all One, so is the one grace of Baptism the gift of all the Three Divine Persons : and the Name of the Trinity is the Name of One God.

[Responsory2]
R. Purge out the old leaven, that ye may be new dough : for even Christ our Passover is sacrificed for us :
* Therefore let us keep the Feast, in the Lord. Alleluia.
V. He died for our offences, and rose again for our justification.
R. Therefore let us keep the Feast, in the Lord. Alleluia.
&Gloria
R. Therefore let us keep the Feast, in the Lord. Alleluia.

[Lectio3]
Preaching them to observe all things whatsoever I have commanded you. The order of the Lord's commands to the Apostles is markedly this. First, to teach all nations; secondly, to make them partake in the Sacrament of the faith; thirdly, when they had believed and been baptized, to teach them what to observe. And lest we should think that He commanded things light and few, He hath said: All things whatsoever I have commanded you, so that all, who have believed and been baptized in the Name of the Trinity, are bound to observe all things whatsoever He hath commanded. And, lo, I am with you alway, even unto the end of the world. He Who promiseth that He will be with His disciples even unto the end of the world, doth give them thereby to know that they will be alway conquerors, and that He will never fail any which believe in Him.
&teDeum

[Ant 2]
When the eleven disciples * saw the Lord in Galilee, they worshipped Him. Alleluia.

[Oratio]
Almighty and eternal God, in the Easter sacrament thou instituted the covenant, whereby thou forgavest mankind; grant to our souls, that what we outwardly profess we may show forth in our deeds.
$Per Dominum

[Ant 3]
All power is given unto Me * in heaven and in earth. Alleluia.
