[Ant 1]
Remember not, Lord * mine offences, nor the offences of my forefathers, neither take Thou vengeance of my sins.

[Versum 1]
V. Let the evening prayer ascend unto thee, O Lord.
R. And let there descend upon us thy mercy.

[Lectio1]
Lesson from the book of Tobias
!Tob 1:1-4
1 Tobias of the tribe and city of Nephtali, (which is in the upper parts of Galilee above Naasson, beyond the way that leadeth to the west, having on the right hand the city of Sephet,)
2 When he was made captive in the days of Salmanasar king of the Assyrians, even in his captivity, forsook not the way of truth,
3 But every day gave all he could get to his brethren his fellow captives, that were of his kindred.
4 And when he was younger than any of the tribe of Nephtali, yet did he no childish thing in his work.

[Responsory1]
R. We have heard of the tribulation of those cities, which they have suffered, and we have fainted. Fear and confusion of mind are fallen upon us. Even the mountains will not give us a refuge.
* Lord, have mercy.
V. We have sinned like our forefathers, we have done unjustly, and wrought iniquity.
R. Lord, have mercy.

[Lectio2]
!Tob 1:5-10
5 Moreover when all went to the golden calves which Jeroboam king of Israel had made, he alone fled the company of all,
6 And went to Jerusalem to the temple of the Lord, and there adored the Lord God of Israel, offering faithfully all his firstfruits, and his tithes,
7 So that in the third year he gave all his tithes to the proselytes, and strangers.
8 These and such like things did he observe when but a boy according to the law of God.
9 But when he was a man, he took to wife Anna of his own tribe, and had a son by her, whom he called after his own name,
10 And from his infancy he taught him to fear God, and to abstain from all sin.

[Responsory2]
R. In all seasons bless God, and ask of Him to order thy goings
* And in all seasons let thy counsels be steadfastly in Him.
V. Seek faithfully and with all thy strength to do such things as please Him.
R. And in all seasons let thy counsels be steadfastly in Him.

[Lectio3]
!Tob 1:11-15
11 And when by the captivity he with his wife and his son and all his tribe was come to the city of Ninive,
12 (When all ate of the meats of the Gentiles) he kept his soul and never was defiled with their meats.
13 And because he was mindful of the Lord with all his heart, God gave him favour in the sight of Salmanasar the king.
14 And he gave him leave to go whithersoever he would, with liberty to do whatever he had a mind.
15 He therefore went to all that were in captivity, and gave them wholesome admonitions.

[Responsory3]
R. My son, remember that we have but a frail life.
* If thou fear God thou shalt have great goods.
V. Be mindful of Him, and beware lest ever thou transgress His commandments.
R. If thou fear God thou shalt have great goods.
&Gloria
R. If thou fear God thou shalt have great goods.

[Lectio4]
Sermo sancti Leonis Papae.
!Serm. 9. de jejunio 7. mensis.
Scio quidem, dilectissimi, plurimos vestrum ita in iis, quae ad observantiam christianae fidei pertinent, esse devotos, ut nostris cohortationibus non indigeant admoneri. Quod enim dudum et traditio decrevit, et consuetudo firmavit; nec eruditio ignorat, nec pietas praetermittit. Sed quia sacerdotalis officii est, erga omnes Ecclesiae filios curam habere communem, in id quod et rudibus prosit et doctis, quos simul diligimus, pariter incitamus: ut jejunium, quod nobis septimi mensis recursus indicit, fide alacri per castigationem animi et corporis celebremus.

[Responsory4]
R. Our poverty was enough for us, that it might have been accounted riches. O that the money had never been, for which thou hast sent away our son,
* The staff of our old age
V. Alas my son, wherefore have we sent thee wandering, even thee, the light of our eyes
R. The staff of our old age

[Lectio5]
Ideo enim ipsa continentiae observantia quatuor est assignata temporibus, ut in idipsum totius anni redeunte decursu, cognosceremus nos indesinenter purificationibus indigere: semperque esse nitendum, dum hujus vitae varietate jactamur, ut peccatum, quod fragilitate carnis et cupiditatum pollutione~
contrahitur, jejuniis atque eleemosynis deleatur. Esuriamus paululum, dilectissimi, et aliquantulum, quod juvandis pQssit prodesse pauperibus, nostrae consuetudini subtrahamus.

[Responsory5]
R. Bless the God of heaven, and confess Him before all living
* For He hath had mercy upon you.
V. Bless Him, and sing praises unto Him, and tell of all His marvellous works.
R. For He hath had mercy upon you.

[Lectio6]
Delectetur conscientia benignorum fructibus largitatis: et gaudia tribuens, quo es laetificandus, accipies. Dilectio proximi, dilectio Dei est, qui plenitudinem legis et Prophetarum in hac geminae caritatis unitate constituit: ut nemo ambigeret, Deo se offerre, quod homini contulisset, dicente Domino Salvatore, cum de alendis juvandisque pauperibus loqueretur: Quod uni eorum fecistis, mihi fecistis. Quarta igitur et sexta feria jejunemus; sabbato vero apud beatum Petrum Apostolum vigilias celebremus: cujus nos meritis et orationibus credimus adjuvandos, ut misericordi Deo jejunio nostro et devotione placeamus.

[Responsory6]
R. It is time for me to return unto Him That sent me
* But bless ye God, and tell of all His marvellous works.
V. Confess Him before all living, for He hath had mercy upon you.
R. But bless ye God, and tell of all His marvellous works.
&Gloria
R. But bless ye God, and tell of all His marvellous works.

[Responsory7]
R. We have heard of the tribulation of those cities, which they have suffered, and we have fainted. Fear and confusion of mind are fallen upon us. Even the mountains will not give us a refuge.
* Lord, have mercy.
V. We have sinned like our forefathers, we have done unjustly, and wrought iniquity.
R. Lord, have mercy.

[Responsory8]
@Tempora/Pent01-0:Responsory8
