On the morrow we keep the Feast of the Holy Confessor John of Kenty, in Poland, glorious for graces and miracles, whose name the Supreme Pontiff Clement XIII. enrolled among those of the Saints, (and of whom mention is made upon the 24th day of December.) 
Upon the same 22nd day of October, were born into the better life  
_
At Jerusalem, the blessed Bishop Mark, a man of great eminence and learning, who was the first Gentile to be entrusted with the government of the Church of Jerusalem, and who in no long time gained the palm of martyrdom under the Emperor Antonine.
At Adrianople, in Thrace, the holy martyrs Philip, Bishop (of Heraclea,) the Priest Severus, Eusebius, and Hermes, who, under the Emperor Julian the Apostate, were imprisoned and flogged, and then burnt. 
Likewise, the holy martyrs the Bishop Alexander, the soldier Heraclius, and their Companions. 
At Fermo, in the March of Ancona, (in the third century,) the holy Bishop and martyr Philip. 
At Huesca, in Spain, (in the ninth century,) the holy sisters Nunilo and Alodia, two Virgins who were punished with death by the Saracens for their confession of the faith, and so suffered martyrdom. 
At Cologne, holy Cordula, one of the Companions of holy Ursula, who had hidden herself in terror at the sight of the sufferings and slaughter of the others, but repented thereof, and on the next day showed herself openly, and received the crown of martyrdom, the last of them all. 
At Hierapolis, in Phrygia, holy Abercius, who was illustrious in the time of the Emperor Mark Antonine. 
At Rouen, holy Melanius, Bishop (of that see,) who was ordained by holy Pope Stephen I., and sent thither to preach the Gospel. 
In Tuscany, (towards the end of the ninth century,) the holy Irishman Donatus, (Bishop of Fiesole.) 
At Verona, (in the sixth century,) the holy Confessor Verecundus, Bishop (of that see.) 
At Jerusalem, the holy Mary Salome, concerning whom it is written in the Gospel that she was careful about the burying of the Lord. 
