TABLES OF LITURGICAL DAYS

SUNDAYS
Sundays of the 1st class:
First, second, third and fourth of Advent. 
First, second, third and fourth of Lent. 
First and second of the Passion. 
Easter Sunday. Low Sunday. Pentecost Sunday.

Sundays of the 2nd class: All other Sundays not mentioned above.

FERIAS
Ferias or the 1st class: 
Ash Wednesday. All ferias of Holy Week.

Ferias of the 2nd class:
Ferias of Advent from December 17 to 23. Ember Days of Advent, Lent and September.

Ferias of the 3rd class:
Ferias of Advent to December 16 inclusive, aside from Ember Days. The ferias of Lent and Passiontide not mentioned above.

Ferias of the 4th class: 
All other ferias not mentioned above.

VIGILS
Vigils of the 1st class: 
Vigil of Christmas. Vigil of Pentecost.

Vigils of the 2nd class: 
Vigil of the Ascension of Our Lord. 
Vigil of the Assumption of the Blessed Virgin Mary. 
Vigil of the Birthday of St. John the Baptist. 
Vigil of SS. Peter and Paul, Apostles.

Vigil of the 3rd class: 
Vigil of St. Lawrence, Martyr.

OCTAVES
Octaves of the 1st class: 
Octave of Easter. Octave of Pentecost.

Octave of the 2nd class: 
Octave of Christmas.

FEASTS OF THE 1ST CLASS

In the Calendar of the Universal Church:
Nativity of Our Lord. 
Epiphany of Our Lord. 
Pasch of the Resurrection. 
Ascension of Our Lord. 
Pentecost.
Feast of the Most Holy Trinity.
Feast of the Most Holy Body of Christ (Corpus Christi). 
Feast of the Most Sacred Heart of Jesus. 
Feast of the Most Precious Blood of Our Lord Jesus Christ. 
Feast of Our Lord Jesus Christ the King. 
Immaculate Conception of the Blessed Virgin Mary. 
Annunciation of the Blessed Virgin Mary. 
Assumption of the Blessed Virgin Mary. 
Feast of St. Joseph, Spouse of the Blessed Virgin Mary, Confessor, Patron of the Universal Church. 
Feast of St. Joseph the Workman, Spouse of the Blessed Virgin Mary, Confessor.
Dedication of St. Michael the Archangel. 
Birthday of St. John the Baptist. 
Feast of SS. Peter and Paul, Apostles. 
Feast of All Saints.

Other liturgical days of the 1st class:
Octave day of Christmas. 
Commemoration of All the Faithful Departed.

In particular calendars:
Feast of a principal patron of a nation, of a region or province, whether ecclesiastical or civil, of a diocese, of a town or city. Anniversary of the dedication of the cathedral church. Feast of a principal patron of a locality or town or city. Anniversary of the dedication of the church itself. Titular feast of the church itself. Titular feast of an Order or Congregation. Feast of a canonized founder of an Order or Congregation. Feast of a principal patron of an Order or Congregation, and of a religious province. Other proper and indult feasts of the 1st class, movable or fixed.

FEASTS OF THE 2ND CLASS
In the calendar of the Universal Church: 
Feast of the Most Holy Name of Jesus. 
Feast of the Holy Family, Jesus, Mary and Joseph. 
Commemoration of the Baptism of Our Lord Jesus Christ. 
Transfiguration of Our Lord Jesus Christ. 
Feast of the Exaltation of the Holy Cross. 
Dedication of the Archbasilica of the Most Holy Saviour. 
Purification of the Blessed Virgin Mary. 
Feast of the Blessed Virgin Mary, Queen. 
Visitation of the Blessed Virgin Mary. 
Feast of the Immaculate Heart of the Blessed Virgin Mary. 
Birthday of the Blessed Virgin Mary.
Feast of the Seven Sorrows of the Blessed Virgin Mary in September.
Feast of the Blessed Virgin Mary of the Rosary. 
Feast of the Motherhood of the Blessed Virgin Mary. 
"Birthday" feasts of the Apostles and Evangelists, namely:
Feast of St. Andrew, Apostle (Nov. 30).
Feast of St. Thomas, Apostle (Dec. 21).
Feast of St. John, Apostle and Evangelist (Dec. 27).
Feast of St. Matthias, Apostle (Feb. 24 or 25).
Feast of St. Mark, Evangelist (Apr. 25).
Feast of SS. Philip and James, Apostles (May 11).
Feast of St. James, Apostle (July 25).
Feast of St. Bartholomew, Apostle (Aug. 24).
Feast of St. Matthew, Apostle and Evangelist (Sept. 21).
Feast of St. Luke, Evangelist (Oct. 18).
Feast of SS. Simon and Jude, Apostles (Oct. 28). 
Feast of St. Stephen, Protomartyr. 
Feast of the Holy Innocents, Martyrs. 
Feast of the Chair of St. Peter, Apostle (Feb. 22). 
Feast of St. Anne, Mother of the Blessed Virgin Mary.
Feast of St. Lawrence, Martyr. 
Feast of St. Joachim, Father of the Blessed Virgin Mary.

in particular calendars:
Feast of a secondary patron of a nation, of a region or province, whether ecclesiastical or civil, of a diocese, of a city or town. Feast of a beatified founder of an Order or Congregation. Feast of a secondary patron of an Order or Congregation, and of a religious province. Other proper and indult feasts of the 2nd class, movable or fixed.

NOTES ON THE TABLES OF OCCURRENCE AND CONCURRENCE

1. A 1st or 2nd class feast of the Lord occurring on a Sunday takes the place of that Sunday with all rights and privileges; hence there is no commemoration of the Sunday.
2. If two feasts of the same divine Person or two feasts of the same Saint or Blessed
occur together, the Office is of the feast holding the higher place in the table
of precedence, and the other is omitted.
3. If a 1st or 2nd class feast of the Lord concurs with any Sunday, or vice versa, 
the Vespers are ordered according to the table of concurrence, but there is never 
a commemoration of the concurring Sunday in the Vespers of the feast of the Lord, nor vice versa.

