[Rank]
Feria secunda infra Hebdomadam IV post Octavam Pentecostes;;Feria;;1

[Rule]
Oratio Dominica

[Lectio1]
Lesson from the first book of Samuel
!1 Sam 17:25-28
25 And some one of Israel said: Have you seen this man that is come up, for he is come up to defy Israel. And the man that shall slay him, the king will enrich with great riches, and will give him his daughter, and will make his father's house free from tribute in Israel.
26 And David spoke to the men that stood by him, saying: What shall be given to the man that shall kill this Philistine, and shall take away the reproach from Israel? for who is this uncircumcised Philistine, that he should defy the armies of the living God?
27 And the people answered him the same words saying: These things shall be given to the man that shall slay him. 
28 Now when Eliab his eldest brother heard this, when he was speaking with others, he was angry with David, and said: Why earnest thou hither? and why didst thou leave those few sheep in the desert? I know thy pride, and the wickedness of thy heart: that thou art come down to see the battle. 

[Responsory1]
@Tempora/Pent03-1Feria:Responsory1

[Lectio2]
!1 Sam 17:29-33
29 And David said: What have I done? is there not cause to speak? 
30 And he turned a little aside from him to another: and said the same word. And the people answered him as before. 
31 And the words which David spoke were heard, and were rehearsed before Saul.
32 And when he was brought to him, he said to him: Let not any man's heart be dismayed in him: I thy servant will go, and will fight against the Philistine.
33 And Saul said to David: Thou art not able to withstand this Philistine, nor to fight against him: for thou art but a boy, but he is a warrior from his youth.

[Responsory2]
@Tempora/Pent03-1Feria:Responsory2

[Lectio3]
!1 Sam 17:34-36
34 And David said to Saul: thy servant kept his father's sheep, and there came a lion, or a bear, and took a ram out of the midst of the flock:
35 And I pursued after them, and struck them, and delivered it out of their mouth: and they rose up against me, and I caught them by the throat, and I strangled and killed them.
36 For I thy servant have killed both a lion and a bear: and this uncircumcised Philistine shall be also as one of them. I will go now, and take away the reproach of the people: for who is this uncircumcised Philistine, who hath dared to curse the army of the living God?

[Responsory3]
@Tempora/Pent03-1Feria:Responsory3
