 [Rank]
Feria Secunda in Rogationibus;;Feria;;1.6

[RankNewcal]
Feria Secunda infra Hebdomadam V post Octavam Paschae;;Feria;;1

[Rule]
Una Antiphona
Laudes Litania
Doxology=Pasc

[Lectio1]
Lesson from the first letter of St Peter the Apostle
!1 Pet 2:1-5
1 Wherefore laying away all malice, and all guile, and dissimulations, and envies, and all detractions,
2 As newborn babes, desire the rational milk without guile, that thereby you may grow unto salvation:
3 If so be you have tasted that the Lord is sweet.
4 Unto whom coming, as to a living stone, rejected indeed by men, but chosen and made honourable by God:
5 Be you also as living stones built up, a spiritual house, a holy priesthood, to offer up spiritual sacrifices, acceptable to God by Jesus Christ.

[Responsory1]
R. Let now the redeemed of the Lord Alleluia
* Say Alleluia, Alleluia, Alleluia.
V. Let them whom He hath redeemed from the hand of the enemy, and gathered them out of the lands. 
R. Say Alleluia, Alleluia, Alleluia.

[Lectio2]
!1 Pet 2:6-10
6 Wherefore it is said in the scripture: Behold, I lay in Sion a chief corner stone, elect, precious. And he that shall believe in him, shall not be confounded.
7 To you therefore that believe, he is honour: but to them that believe not, the stone which the builders rejected, the same is made the head of the corner:
8 And a stone of stumbling, and a rock of scandal, to them who stumble at the word, neither do believe, whereunto also they are set.
9 But you are a chosen generation, a kingly priesthood, a holy nation, a purchased people: that you may declare his virtues, who hath called you out of darkness into his marvellous light:
10 Who in time past were not a people: but are now the people of God. Who had not obtained mercy; but now have obtained mercy.

[Responsory2]
R. O sing unto the Lord. Alleluia.
* Sing unto Him. Alleluia.
V. Give unto the Lord glory and honour, give unto the Lord the glory due unto His Name.
R. Sing unto Him. Alleluia.

[Lectio3]
!1 Pet 2:11-17
11 Dearly beloved, I beseech you as strangers and pilgrims, to refrain yourselves from carnal desires which war against the soul,
12 Having your conversation good among the Gentiles: that whereas they speak against you as evildoers, they may, by the good works, which they shall behold in you, glorify God in the day of visitation.
13 Be ye subject therefore to every human creature for God's sake: whether it be to the king as excelling;
14 Or to governors as sent by him for the punishment of evildoers, and for the praise of the good:
15 For so is the will of God, that by doing well you may put to silence the ignorance of foolish men:
16 As free, and not as making liberty a cloak for malice, but as the servants of God.
17 Honour all men. Love the brotherhood. Fear God. Honour the king.

[Responsory3]
R. I will declare thy Name unto my brethren Alleluia.
* In the midst of the congregation will I praise thee Alleluia, Alleluia.
V. I will praise thee, O Lord, among the people, and sing unto thee among the nations.
R. In the midst of the congregation will I praise thee Alleluia, Alleluia.
&Gloria
R. In the midst of the congregation will I praise thee Alleluia, Alleluia.

[Ant 2]
Ask, and ye shall receive * seek, and ye shall find knock, and it shall be opened unto you. Alleluia.

[Oratio 2]
Grant, we beseech thee, O Almighty God, that we who in our tribulation are yet of good cheer because of thy loving-kindness, may find thee mighty to save from all dangers.
$Per Dominum.

[Ant 3]
The Father Himself loveth you, * because ye have loved Me, and have believed in Me. Alleluia.

[Oratio 3]
O God, from Whom all good things do come, grant to us thy humble servants that by thy holy inspiration we may think those things that be good, and by thy merciful guiding may perform the same.
$Per Dominum
