[Name]
Commune Martyrom Tempore Paschali

[Rule]
Psalmi Dominica
Antiphonas horas
Psalm5 Vespera=116
Psalm5 Vespera3=115

[Ant Vespera]
Your saints O Lord * flourish like lilies, alleluja: and like the smell of balsam are before you, alleluja;;109
In the heavenly kingdom is the habitatio of the saints, alleluja: and they rest in the eternity, alleluja;;110
Protected by veil * your saints turn to you O Lord, alleluja, alleluja;;111
Spirits and souls * of the just, say hymns to our Lord, alleluja, alleluja;;112
The just shine * like the, the sun at the face of God, alleluja;;116

[Capitulum Vespera]
!Wis 5:1
v. Akkor az igaz teljes biztonsággal áll szemben azokkal, akik sanyargatták, és lebecsülték a fáradozását.
$Deo gratias

[Hymnus Vespera]
@Commune/C3:Hymnus Laudes

[Versum 1]
V. Saints and just, rejoice in the Lord, alleluja.
R. The Lord had chosen you for his inheritance, alleluja.

[Ant 1]
Eternal light * will shine over your saints O Lord, and the eternity of the times, alleluja

[Oratio]
O God, who dost permit us to keep the birthday of thy holy Martyrs N. et N. grant that we may enjoy their fellowship in everlasting happiness
$Per Dominum

[Invit]
Örvendjenek a szentek az Úrban * alleluja.

[Hymnus Matutinum]
@Commune/C3:Hymnus Matutinum

[Ant Matutinum]
Then shall the just stand * with great constancy against those that have afflicted them, alleluja;;1
;;2
;;3
V. Saints and just, rejoice in the Lord, alleluja.
R. The Lord had chosen you for his inheritance, alleluja.
Ecce * quomodo computati sunt inter filios Dei, et inter sanctos sors illorum est, alleluja;;14
;;15
;;23
V. Eternal light will shine over your saints O Lord, alleluja
R. And the eternity of the times, alleluja, alleluja
Eternal light * will shine over your saints O Lord, and the eternity of the times, alleluja, alleluja;;32
;;33
;;45
V. Everlasting joy shall be upon their heads, alleluja
R. They shall obtain joy and gladness, alleluja

[Lectio1]
!Acts 8:12-19
12 De amikor hittek Fülöpnek, aki Isten országáról és Jézus Krisztus nevéről beszélt nekik, megkeresztelkedtek, férfiak és nők egyaránt.
13 Maga Simon is hívő lett, megkeresztelkedett, és Fülöphöz csatlakozott. A jelek és a nagy csodák láttán elámult.
14 Amikor a Jeruzsálemben maradt apostolok meghallották, hogy Szamaria elfogadta az Isten szavát, elküldték hozzájuk Pétert és Jánost.
15 Amikor megérkeztek, imádkoztak értük, hogy megkapják a Szentlelket.
16 Mert még egyikükre sem szállt le, csak meg voltak keresztelve az Úr Jézus nevére.
17 Rájuk tették hát kezüket, s erre megkapták a Szentlelket.
18 Amikor Simon látta, hogy az apostolok kézrátétellel közvetítik a Szentlelket, pénzt ajánlott fel nekik:
19 "Adjatok nekem is olyan hatalmat - mondta -, hogy akire csak ráteszem a kezem, megkapja a Szentlelket."

[Responsory1]
R. Blessed is the man that feareth the Lord, alleluja
* He shall delight exceedingly in his commandments, alleluja, alleluja, alleluja.
V. Glory and wealth shall be in his house: and his justice remaineth for ever and ever.
R. He shall delight exceedingly in his commandments, alleluja, alleluja, alleluja.

[Lectio2]
!Rom 8:28-34
28 Tudjuk azt is, hogy akik Istent szeretik, azoknak minden javukra válik, hiszen ő saját elhatározásából választotta ki őket.
29 Akiket ugyanis eleve ismert, azokat eleve arra rendelte, hogy Fiának képmását öltsék magukra, így lesz ő elsőszülött a sok testvér között.
30 Akiket előre erre rendelt, azokat meg is hívta, akiket meghívott, azokat megigazulttá tette, akiket pedig megigazulttá tett, azokat meg is dicsőítette.
31 Mire következtethetünk ebből? Ha Isten velünk, ki ellenünk?
32 Aki saját Fiát nem kímélte, hanem mindnyájunkért áldozatul adta, hogyne ajándékozna nekünk vele együtt mindent?
33 Ki emel vádat Isten választottai ellen? Isten, aki a megigazulást adta?
34 Ki ítél el? Krisztus Jézus, aki meghalt, sőt fel is támadt, és az Isten jobbján közbenjár értünk?

[Responsory2]
R. Your sorrow, alleluja
* Shall be turned into joy, alleluja
V. the world shall rejoice: and you shall be made sorrowful, but your sorrow
R. Shall be turned into joy, alleluja

[Lectio3]
!Rom 8:35-39
35 Ki szakíthat el bennünket Krisztus szeretetétől? Nyomor vagy szükség? Üldöztetés vagy éhínség, ruhátlanság, életveszély vagy kard?
36 Amint meg van írva: Minket minden időben teérted irtanak, s vágójuhok módjára tartanak.
37 De mindezeken diadalmaskodunk őáltala, aki szeret minket.
38 Biztos vagyok ugyanis benne, hogy sem halál, sem élet, sem angyalok, sem fejedelemségek, sem jelenvalók, sem eljövendők, sem hatalmasságok,
39 sem magasság, sem mélység, sem egyéb teremtmény el nem szakíthat bennünket Isten szeretetétől, amely Krisztus Jézusban, a mi Urunkban van.

[Responsory3]
R. Precious in the sight of the Lord, alleluja
* Is the death of his saints, alleluja
V. The Lord is nigh unto them that are of a contrite heart: and he will save the humble of spirit.
R. Is the death of his saints, alleluja
&Gloria
R. Is the death of his saints, alleluja

[Lectio4]
Darly beloved brethren, it is very meet and right that after the gladness of Easter, which we have celebrated in the Church, we should mingle our own joy with the joy of the holy Martyrs yea, that we should tell of the glory of the Lord's rising again, to them that have been made partakers of the Lord's sufferings. It truly must needs be that they which have been partakers of His sufferings, should be also of His joy. For thus saith the blessed Apostle " As ye are partakers of the sufferings, so shall ye be also of the consolation." (2~
Cor. i. 7.) And again " If we suffer, we shall also reign with Him." (2 Tim. ii. 12.) He, therefore, that endureth sorrow for Christ, must needs also have glory with Christ.

[Responsory4]
R. The everlasting light shall shine upon thy Saints, O Lord.
* Even unto everlasting. Alleluja.
V. Everlasting joy upon their heads they shall obtain joy and gladness.
R. Even unto everlasting. Alleluja.

[Lectio5]
I say again, let us tell to the holy Martyrs what the grace of the Lord's Passover is let us tell them that, even as He hath opened the bars of His own grave, even so shall their graves also be opened let us tell them that, even as in His dead Body the Veins grew warm and quick again, even so shall their~
limbs, that now are cold, flush with the heat of an eternal vigour. That power which brought again our Lord from the dead will bring His Martyrs too. For as they have followed Him in His sufferings, so shall they follow Him also in His newness of life. It is written in the Psalms " Thou hast shown Me the path of~
life" (xv. 12.) This is said of the Resurrection in the Person of the Saviour, as of Him Who, after that He died, came up again from hell, and began to have that path of life which was not known before.

[Responsory5]
R. God will comfort Alleluja
* His servants. Alleluja, Alleluja.
V. The Lord will judge His people, and will comfort
R. His servants. Alleluja, Alleluja.

[Lectio6]
Bfore that Christ came, that path of life was not known, which none had risen from the dead to tread. But, since the Lord hath risen, it is known, and many have trodden it after the Lord. Touching them, the holy Evangelist sarin:'" Many bodies of the saints which slept arose with Him, and went into the holy city." (Matth. xxvii. 52, 53.) 4 Wherefore, when the Lord riseth again and saith " Thou hast shown Me the path of life," we also can' now say to Him "Thou hast shown us the path of life." For He hath shown us the path of life, Who hath shown us the way that leadeth unto life. He hath shown me the path of life, Who hath taught me faith, mercy, righteousness, and chastity for these are the ways that lead unto life eternal.

[Responsory6]
R. Come forth, O ye daughters of Jerusalem, and behold the Martyrs with the crowns wherewith the Lord crowned them
* In the day of His feasting, and of His gladness. Alleluja.
V. For He hath strengthtened the bars of thy gates He hath blessed thy children within thee.
R. In the day of His feasting, and of His gladness. Alleluja.
&Gloria
R. In the day of His feasting, and of His gladness. Alleluja.

[Lectio7]
Evangélium szent János Apostol kőnyvéből
!John 15:1-7
1 Én vagyok az igazi szőlőtő, s Atyám a szőlőműves. És így tovább.
_
Homily by St Austin, Bishop of Hippo.
!Tract 80, on John.
Dearly beloved brethren, this passage of the Gospel, wherein the Lord saith that He is the vine, and that His disciples are the branches, is to be taken in that~
sense wherein it is also said, that He is the Head of the Church, (Eph. v. 23), and that we are the members of Him Who is the Mediator between God and men, the man Christ Jesus. (1 Tim. ii. 5).The vine and his branches are of one and the same nature. Therefore, seeing that He was God, of which nature we are not, He was made man, to the end that He might have in Himself this vine, that is, the manhood, whereof we men can be made branches.

[Responsory7]
R. I am the true vine, ye are the branches.
* He that abideth in Me, and I in him, the same bringeth forth much fruit. Alleluja, Alleluja.
V. As the Father hath loved me, so have I loved you.
R. He that abideth in Me, and I in him, the same bringeth forth much fruit. Alleluja, Alleluja.

[Responsory7c]
R. Tristitia vestra, alleluja,
* Convertetur in gaudium, alleluja, alleluja.
V. Mundus autem gaudebit, vos vero contristabimini, sed tristitia vestra.
R. Convertetur in gaudium, alleluja, alleluja.

[Lectio8]
Hy saith He "I am the true vine"? As touching this word "true," hath He not here regard to that other parable of a vine, the like figure whereto He doth~
here apply to Himself? (Jer. ii. 21.) Here is He called a vine, not plainly, but in parable, as also He is called elsewhere a sheep, (Isa. liii. 7, Acts viii. 32,) a~
lamb, (John i. 36,) a lion, (Apoc. v. 5,) a rock, (1 Cor. x. 4,) a corner-stone, (Eph. ii. 20,) and other things of the like kind. But these things are in themselves that which they seem to be, albeit He is called by their names, not plainly, but in a parable, and herein are they different from that vine, whereof in this place He taketh on Him the name. For when He saith "I am the true vine," doth He not make distinction between Himself, and that which indeed seemed to be a vine, but to which it is said " How art thou turned into the degenerate plant~
of a strange vine unto Me?" (Jer. ii. 21.) For by what title shall that plant be called other than a false vine, whereto they looked that she should bring forth grapes, and she brought forth thorns

[Responsory8]
R. Her Nazarites are become pure, Alleluja they reflect the glory of God, Alleluja.
* They are whiter than milk. Alleluja, Alleluja.
V. They are purer than snow, they are whiter than milk, they are more ruddy in body than coral, their polishing is of sapphire.
R. They are whiter than milk. Alleluja, Alleluja.
&Gloria
R. They are whiter than milk. Alleluja, Alleluja.

[Lectio9]
Jesus saith " I am the true vine, and My Father is the husbandman." Is the vine one with the husbandman These words then are to be taken in that sense~
wherein He also saith " My Father is greater than I." (John xiv. 28.) I and the Father are one," and again " and My Father is the husbandman," we understand that They are not the vine and the husbandman, after the manner of a vine, and the husbandman that from without doth care for and keep it, but after the manner of a vine and Him That from within doth make it to bring forth fruit. For "neither is he that planteth anything, neither he that watereth but God~
that giveth the increase." (1 Cor. iii. 7.) But Christ is God, for "the Word was God." (John i. 1.) Therefore He and the Father are one and, albeit "the Word was made flesh," (John i. 14), which, before, He was not, He ceased not to be still That Which He was.
&teDeum

[Ant Laudes]
Your saints O Lord* flourish like lilies, alleluja: and like the smell of balsam are before you, alleluja
In the heavenly kingdom is the habitatio of the saints, alleluja: and they rest in the eternity, alleluja
Protected by veil * your saints turn to you O Lord, alleluja, alleluja.
Spirits and souls * of the just, say hymns to our Lord, alleluja, alleluja.
The just shine * like the, the sun at the face of God, alleluja.

[Capitulum Laudes]
!Wis 5:1
v. Akkor az igaz teljes biztonsággal áll szemben azokkal, akik sanyargatták, és lebecsülték a fáradozását.
$Deo gratias

[Hymnus Laudes]
@Commune/C3:Hymnus Laudes

[Versum 2]
V. Precious in the sight of the Lord, alleluja
R. Is the death of his saints, alleluja

[Ant 2]
Jerusálem leányai * jöjjetek és lássátok a megkoronázott vértanúkat; az Úr koronázta meg őket az öröm ünnepén, alleluja, alleluja

[Lectio Prima]
!Rom 8:28
v. Tudjuk azt is, hogy akik Istent szeretik, azoknak minden javukra válik, hiszen ő saját elhatározásából választotta ki őket.

[Capitulum Tertia]
!Wis 5:1
v. Akkor az igaz teljes biztonsággal áll szemben azokkal, akik sanyargatták, és lebecsülték a fáradozását.
$Deo gratias

[Responsory Tertia]
R.br. Saints and just, rejoice in the Lord, alleluja, alleluja
R. Saints and just, rejoice in the Lord, alleluja, alleluja
V. The Lord had chosen you for his inheritance
R. Alleluja, alleluja
&Gloria
R. Saints and just, rejoice in the Lord, alleluja, alleluja
_
V. Eternal light will shine over your saints O Lord, alleluja
R. And the eternity of the times, alleluja

[Capitulum Sexta]
!Sap. 5.5
v. Behold how they are numbered among the children of God, and their lot is among the saints.
$Deo gratias

[Responsory Sexta]
R.br. Eternal light will shine over your saints O Lord Alleluja, alleluja
R. Eternal light will shine over your saints O Lord Alleluja, allleuja
V. And the eternity of the times
R. Alleluja, alleluja
&Gloria
R. Eternal light will shine over your saints O Lord Alleluja, alleluja.
_
V. Everlasting joy shall be upon their heads, alleluja
R. They shall obtain joy and gladness, alleluja

[Capitulum Nona]
!Rom 8:28
v. Tudjuk azt is, hogy akik Istent szeretik, azoknak minden javukra válik, hiszen ő saját elhatározásából választotta ki őket.
$Deo gratias

[Responsory Nona]
R.br. Everlasting joy shall be upon their heads, alleluja, alleluja
R. Everlasting joy shall be upon their heads, alleluja, alleluja
V. They shall obtain joy and gladness
R. Alleluja, alleluja
&Gloria
R. Everlasting joy shall be upon their heads, alleluja, alleluja
_
V. Precious in the sight of the Lord, alleluja
R. Is the death of his saints, alleluja

[Ant Vespera 3]
These men are holy, * for they have given up their bodies unto death for the sake of the covenant of their God, and have washed their robes in the Blood of the Lamb;;109
The Saints through faith subdued kingdoms, * wrought righteousness, obtained promises;;110
The youth of the Saints shall be renewed * like the eagle's they shall grow as the lily in the city of the Lord;;111
God shall wipe away all tears from the eyes of His Saints * and there shall be no more sorrow, nor crying, neither shall there be any more pain; for the former things are passed away;;112
In the heavenly kingdoms, * there is the dwelling of the Saints there shall be their rest for ever and ever;;115

[Versum 3]
V. Precious in the sight of the Lord, alleluja
R. Is the death of his saints, alleluja

[Ant 3]
Saints and just * rejoice in the Lord, alleluja, the Lord had chosen you for his inheritance, alleluja.
