[Name]
Officium Dedicationis Ecclesiae

[Rule]
Psalmi Dominica
Antiphonas horas
9 lectiones
Psalm5 Vespera=147
Festum Domini
Divinum auxilium

[Ant Vespera]
Holiness becometh thine house, * O Lord, for ever;;109
My house * shall be called the house of prayer;;110
This is the Lord's house * stoutly builded, well founded upon a sure rock;;111
The Lord's house is well founded * upon a sure rock;;112
All thy walls are of stones most precious, * and the towers of Jerusalem shall be built up with jewels;;147

[Capitulum Vespera]
!Rev 21:2
v. Akkor láttam, hogy a szent város, az új Jeruzsálem alászállt az égbõl, az Istentõl. Olyan volt, mint a võlegényének fölékesített menyasszony.
$Deo gratias

[Hymnus Vespera]
{:H-Coelestisurbs:}v. Ég városa, Jeruzsálem,
Ó boldog béke-látomás!
Falaid eleven kövek,
Úgy nôsz a csillagok közé.
És mint menyasszonyt, angyalok
Ezerszer ezre leng körül.
_
Ó boldogságos szép ara,
Jegykincsed égi glória,
S a Vôlegény kegyelmei.
Ó szépséges királyi nô,
Kit választott Krisztus király,
Mennynek tündöklô városa!
_
Igazgyöngyökkel tündököl
És tárva ott minden kapu
Minden halandót befogad,
Ki Krisztus nyomdokán haladt,
Vagy Krisztusa szerelmeért
Bátran viselt gyötrelmeket.
_
A vésô üdvös éle járt
És csattogott a kalapács,
Az épület minden kövén:
Mester keze formálta ki
S helyezte el bölcs rend szerint
A felséges homlokzaton.
_
Köteles hódolat legyen
Az Atyának mindszüntelen,
Az Egyszülöttnek tisztelet,
S a Szentléleknek is vele
Glória, áldás, hatalom,
Miképen volt, mindenkoron.
Ámen.

[Versum 1]
V. This is the house of God, stoutly builded.
R. Well founded upon a sure rock.

[Ant 1]
The Most High hath hallowed His Tabernacle. * For this is the House of God, whereon His Name shall be called, whereof it is written My Name shall be there, saith the Lord.

[Oratio1]
O God, who invisibly containest all things, and yet art pleased for the salvation of men to show forth visible signs of thy power, fill this house with the glory of thine indwelling power and grant that all who gather themselves together to pray in this place, may receive the good comfort of thine help in every tribulation wherein they cry unto thee.
$Per Dominum

[Oratio]
O God, who dost every year bring round unto us again the day whereon this thine holy temple was hallowed, and bringest us again in soundness of body and mind to be present at thine holy worship, graciously hear the supplications of thy people, and grant that whosoever shall come into this thine house to ask good at thine hand, may be rejoiced in the obtaining of all his request.
$Per Dominum

[Invit]
Krisztust, az Egyház Jegyesét * imádjuk szent templomában!

[Hymnus Matutinum]
@Commune/C8:Hymnus Vespera

[Ant Matutinum]
Lift up your gates, O ye princes, * and be ye lift up, ye everlasting doors;;23
The Lord shall be my God, * and this stone shall be called God's house;;45
Moses built an altar * to the Lord God.;;47
V. Holiness becometh thine house, O Lord,
R. For ever.
This is none other but the house of God, and this is the gate of heaven;;83
Jacob beheld a ladder set up on the earth, and the top of it reached to heaven, and the angels of God descending on it. And he said Surely this place is holy;;86
Jacob set up the stone for a pillar, and poured oil upon the top of it;;87
V. My house
R. Shall be called the house of prayer.
He that dwelleth in the help of the Most High * shall abide under the shadow of the God of heaven;;90
The Temple of the Lord is holy. * The same is God's workmanship and God's building;;95
Blessed be the glory of the Lord * from His (holy) place. Alleluia;;98
V. This is the house of God, stoutly builded.
R. Well founded upon a sure rock.

[Lectio1]
Olvasmány a Krónikák második könyvébõl
!2 Chr 7:1-5
1 Amikor Salamon befejezte az imádságát, tûz szállt le az égbõl, és megemésztette az égõ- és véresáldozatokat. Ekkor az Úr dicsõsége betöltötte a templomot.
2 A papok nem is tudtak bemenni az Úr templomába, mert az Úr dicsõsége betöltötte az Úr templomát.
3 Izrael fiai mindnyájan látták, amint a tûz és az Úr dicsõsége leszállt a templomra. Ekkor arccal a földre, a kövezett padozatra borultak, és hódolattal magasztalták az Urat: "Mert jó, mert irgalma örökkévaló!"
4 Azután a király és a nép vágóáldozatot mutatott be az Úrnak.
5 Salamon király huszonkétezer szarvasmarhát és százhúszezer bárányt mutatott be véresáldozatul. Így szentelte föl a király és az egész nép az Isten templomát.

[Responsory1]
R. When the Temple was dedicated the people sang praise
* And sweet in their mouths was the sound.
V. The Lord's house is established in the top of the mountains; and all nations shall flow unto it.
R. And sweet in their mouths was the sound.

[Lectio2]
!2 Chr 7:6-9
6 Míg a papok beosztásuk szerint a helyükön álltak, a leviták Dávid dicsõítõ énekeit adták elõ, kezükben az Úr hangszereivel, amelyeket Dávid király azért készíttetett, hogy magasztalják az Urat, mert irgalma örökkévaló. A velük szemben álló papok pedig a trombitákat fújták. Ott állt az egész nép is.
7 Salamon az Úr temploma elõtt elterülõ középsõ udvart is fölszentelte. Ott égette el ugyanis az égõáldozatokat és a közösségi áldozatok háját, mert a Salamon által készített oltáron nem fértek el az égõáldozatok meg az ételáldozatok és a hájrészek.
8 Ebben az idõben Salamon hét napon át tartotta az ünnepet és vele egész Izrael: hatalmas gyülekezet, Hamat bejárójától Egyiptom patakjáig.
9 A nyolcadik napon aztán záróünnepséget rendezett. Hét napon át avatta fel ugyanis az oltárt, és hét napig tartott az ünnep.

[Responsory2]
R. The Lord's house is established in the top of the mountains, and exalted above the hills
* And all nations shall flow unto it, and shall say Glory be to thee, O Lord!
V. They shall doubtless come again with rejoicing, bringing their sheaves with them.
R. And all nations shall flow unto it, and shall say Glory be to thee, O Lord!

[Lectio3]
!2 Chr 7:11-16
11 Salamon tehát szerencsésen befejezte az Úr templomát, a királyi palotát és mindazt, amit az Úr templomában és a maga házában meg akart valósítani.
12 Ekkor éjjel megjelent Salamonnak az Úr, és azt mondta neki: "Meghallgattam imádságodat, és ezt a helyet választottam magamnak, hogy az áldozat helye legyen.
13 Ha bezárom az eget, és elmarad az esõ; ha megparancsolom a sáskáknak, hogy pusztítsák el az országot, vagy ha pestist küldök népemre,
14 de ha népem, amely nevemet viseli, megalázkodik, könyörög hozzám, kedvemet keresi és megtér gonosz útjáról, akkor meghallgatom az égbõl, megbocsátom bûneit, és meggyógyítom országát.
15 Szemem tehát nyitva lesz, és fülem figyel az imádságra, amelyet ezen a helyen mondanak.
16 Kiválasztottam ugyanis, és szentté tettem ezt a templomot, hogy benne legyen nevem mindörökre, és ott is maradjon szemem és szívem mindenkor.

[Responsory3]
R. O Lord, bless this house which I have built unto thy Name. Whosoever shall come unto this place and pray, then
* Hear Thou from the excellent throne of thy glory.
V. O Lord, if thy people turn and pray toward thy sanctuary.
R. Hear Thou from the excellent throne of thy glory.
&Gloria
R. Hear Thou from the excellent throne of thy glory.

[Lectio4]
From the Sermons of St Austin, Bishop (of Hippo.)
!252nd for the Season.
Dearly beloved brethren, as often as we keep the Dedication - Feast of some Altar or Church, if we think faithfully and carefully, and live holily and righteously, that which is done in temples made with hands, is done in our soul by a spiritual building. He at the Dedication of the Temple. lied not who said~
The temple of God is holy; which temple ye are (i Cor. iii. 17,) and again: Know ye not that your body is the temple of the Holy Ghost, Which is in you, (vi. 19.) And therefore, dearly beloved brethren, since by the grace of God, without any foregoing deserts of our own, we have been made meet to become the Temple of God, let us work as hard as we can, with His help, that our Lord may not find in His Temple, that is, in us, anything to offend the eyes of His Majesty.

[Responsory4]
R. If they pray toward this place,
* Forgive the sin of thy people, O God, and teach them the good way wherein they should walk, and manifest forth thy glory in this place.
V. Give ear, O Shepherd of Israel, Thou that leadest Joseph like a flock, Thou that sittest upon the Cherubim.
R. Forgive the sin of thy people, O God, and teach them the good way wherein they should walk, and manifest forth thy glory in this place.

[Lectio5]
Let the Tabernacle of our heart be swept clean of vices and filled with virtues. Let it be locked to the devil, and thrown open to Christ. Yea, let us so work, that we may be able to open the door of the kingdom of heaven with the key of good works. For even as evil works are so many bolts and bars to close against us the entrance into life, so beyond doubt are good works the key thereto. And therefore, dearly beloved brethren, let each one look into his own conscience, and when he findeth the wounds of guilt there, let him first strive by prayers, fasting, or almsdeeds to purge his conscience, and so let him dare to take the Eucharist.

[Responsory5]
R. How dreadful is this place!
* Surely this is none other but the house of God, and this is the gate of heaven.
V. This is the house of God, stoutly builded, well founded upon a sure rock.
R. Surely this is none other but the house of God, and this is the gate of heaven.

[Lectio6]
For if he acknowledge his iniquity, and withdraw himself from the Altar of God, he will soon attain unto the mercy of the pardon of God, for, as he that exalted himself shall be abased, so shall he that humbleth himself be exalted. (Luke~
xiv. n.) He who, as I have said, acknowledging his iniquity, withdraweth himself through lowliness from the Altar of the Church, till he have mended his life, need have but little fear that he will be excommunicated from the eternal marriagesupper in heaven.

[Responsory6]
R. Jacob rose up early in the morning, and set up the stone for a pillar, and poured oil upon the top of it, and vowed a vow unto the Lord.
* Surely this place is holy, and I knew it not.
V. And Jacob awaked out of his sleep, and he said
R. Surely this place is holy, and I knew it not.
&Gloria
R. Surely this place is holy, and I knew it not.

[Lectio7]
Evangélium szent Lukács Evangélista kõnyvébõl
!Luke 19:1-10
1 Aztán odaért Jerikóba és végigment rajta.
2 Élt ott egy Zakeus nevû tehetõs ember, a vámosok feje. E's i'gy tova'bb.
_
Homily by St Ambrose, Bishop (of Milan.)
!Bk. viii. on Luke.
Zaccheus was little of stature, that is, he was not raised aloft among men by nobility of birth, and, like the most of the world, he possessed few merits. When he heard that the Lord and Saviour, Who had come unto His Own, and Whom His Own had not received, (John i.11,) was coming, he desired to see Him. But the sight of Jesus is not easy; to any on the earth it is impossible. And since Zacchaeus had neither the Prophets, nor yet the Law, as a gracious help to his nature, he climbed up into a sycamore tree, raising his feet above the vanity of the Jews, and straightening the crooked branches of his former life, and therefore he received Jesus to lodge within his house.

[Responsory7]
R. My house shall be called the house of prayer, saith the Lord. Therein, he that asketh, receiveth; he that seeketh, findeth;
* And to him that knocketh, it shall be opened.
V. Ask, and ye shall receive; seek, and ye shall find.
R. And to him that knocketh, it shall be opened.

[Lectio8]
He did well to climb up into a tree, that a good tree might bring forth good fruits, (Matth. vii. 17,) and that the slip of the wild olive, grafted, contrary to nature, into the good olive, might bring forth the fruits of the law. (Rom. xi. 17, 24.) For the root is holy, however unprofitable the branches. Their barren beauty hath now been overshadowed by the belief of the Gentiles in the Resurrection, as by a material upgrowth. Zacchaeus, then, was in the sycamore tree, and the blind man by the way-side, (xviii. 35.) For the one, Jesus stood waiting to show mercy, and asked him before He healed him, what he would that He should do for him; being unbidden of the other, He bade Himself to be his Guest, knowing how rich was the reward of receiving Him. Nevertheless, albeit He had heard no words of invitation, yet had He seen how his heart went.

[Responsory8]
R. All thy walls are of stones most precious.
* The towers of Jerusalem shall be built up with jewels.
V. The gates of Jerusalem shall be built up with the sapphire stone, and the emerald, and all her walls round about with stones most precious.
R. The towers of Jerusalem shall be built up with jewels.
&Gloria
R. The towers of Jerusalem shall be built up with jewels.

[Lectio9]
But lest we should seem haughtily to pass by the poor blind man, and to hurry on to the rich one, let us stand waiting for him, as the Lord stood and waited; let us ask of him, as Christ asked of him. Let us ask, because we are ignorant; Christ asked, because He knew. Let us ask, that we may know whence he received his cure; Christ asked, that all of us may know from one ensample wherethrough we are to earn a sight of the Lord. Christ asked, that we might believe that none, save they that confess Him, can be saved.
&teDeum

[Ant Laudes]
Holiness becometh thine house, * O Lord, for ever.
My house * shall be called the house of prayer.
This is the Lord's house * stoutly builded, well founded upon a sure rock.
The Lord's house is well founded * upon a sure rock.
All thy walls are of stones most precious, * and the towers of Jerusalem shall be built up with jewels.

[Capitulum Laudes]
!Rev 21:2
v. Akkor láttam, hogy a szent város, az új Jeruzsálem alászállt az égbõl, az Istentõl. Olyan volt, mint a võlegényének fölékesített menyasszony.
$Deo gratias

[Hymnus Laudes]
{:H-Altoexolympi:}v. Olymp magas tetôirôl
A Nagy Szülônek egy Fia,
Mint elszakított sziklakô,
A föld színére hullt alá:
A felsô s alsó háznak így
Egyenlôképen sarkköve.
_
Ám fenn az égi csarnokok
Dícsérettôl visszhangosak.
Örök dalokkal hirdetik
A hármasegy Isten dicsét.
Versengve zengjük ôvelük
A szép Sion zsoltárait!
_
Mennyek királya, töltse bé
Jóságos fény e templomot.
Jelenj meg itt; ó jöjj, hívunk,
Néped imáit elfogadd,
És szíveinket szüntelen
Mennyek malasztja öntse el.
_
Érjék el esdô híveid,
Kik itt hozzád könyörgenek
A Boldog Ház jutalmait,
S a nyert jókon örüljenek,
Míg egykor majd testetlenül
Bírják a Boldog Székeket.
_
Köteles hódolat legyen
Az Atyának mindszüntelen,
Az Egyszülöttnek tisztelet,
S a Szentléleknek is vele
Glória, áldás, hatalom,
Miképen volt, mindenkoron.
Ámen.

[HymnusM Laudes]
v. Christ is made the sure Foundation,
Christ the Head and Cornerstone;
Chosen of the Lord, and precious,
Binding all the Church in one,
Holy Zion’s Help forever,
And her Confidence alone.
_
All that dedicated city,
Dearly loved of God on high,
In exultant jubilation,
Pours perpetual melody,
God the One in Three adoring
In glad hymns eternally.
_
To this temple, where we call Thee,
Come, O Lord of Hosts, today;
With Thy wonted lovingkindness
Hear Thy servants as they pray.
And Thy fullest benediction
Shed within its walls alway.
_
Here vouchsafe to all Thy servants
What they ask of Thee to gain;
What they gain from Thee forever
With the blessèd to retain,
And hereafter in Thy glory
Evermore with Thee to reign.
_
Laud and honor to the Father,
Laud and honor to the Son,
Laud and honor to the Spirit,
Ever Three and ever One;
Consubstantial, co-eternal,
While unending ages run.
Amen.

[Versum 2]
V. This is the Lord's house, stoutly builded
R. Well founded upon a sure rock.

[Ant 2]
Zacchseus, make haste and come down, for to-day I must abide at thy house. * And he made haste and came down, and received Him joyfully into his house. This day is salvation come from God to this house. Alleluia.

[Lectio Prima]
!Rev 21:4-4
v. Letöröl szemükrõl minden könnyet. Nem lesz többé halál, sem gyász, sem jajgatás, sem fáradság, mert az elsõk elmúltak." 

[Capitulum Tertia]
!Rev 21:2
v. Akkor láttam, hogy a szent város, az új Jeruzsálem alászállt az égbõl, az Istentõl. Olyan volt, mint a võlegényének fölékesített menyasszony.
$Deo gratias

[Responsory Tertia]
R.br. Holiness becometh thine house, O Lord.
R. Holiness becometh thine house, O Lord
V. For ever.
R. O Lord.
&Gloria
R. Holiness becometh thine house, O Lord.
_
V. This place is holy, wherein the Priest prayeth.
R. For the pardon of the transgressions and offences of the people.

[Capitulum Sexta]
!Rev 21:3
v. Akkor hallottam, hogy a trón felõl megszólal egy hangos szózat, ezt mondva: "Íme, Isten hajléka az emberek között! Velük fog lakni és õk az õ népe lesznek, és maga az Isten lesz velük.
$Deo gratias

[Responsory Sexta]
R.br. This place is holy, wherein the Priest prayeth.
R. This place is holy, wherein the Priest prayeth
V. For the pardon of the transgressions and offences of the people.
R. The Priest prayeth.
&Gloria
R. This place is holy, wherein the Priest prayeth.
_
V. This is the Lord's house, stoutly builded
R. Well founded upon a sure rock.

[Capitulum Nona]
!Rev 21:4-4
v. Letöröl szemükrõl minden könnyet. Nem lesz többé halál, sem gyász, sem jajgatás, sem fáradság, mert az elsõk elmúltak."
$Deo gratias

[Responsory Nona]
R.br. This is the Lord's house, stoutly builded.
R. This is the Lord's house, stoutly builded
V. Well founded upon a sure rock.
R. Stoutly builded.
&Gloria
R. This is the Lord's house, stoutly builded.
_
V. The Lord's house is well founded
R. Upon a sure rock.

[Versum 3]
V. Holiness becometh thine house, O Lord
R. For ever.

[Ant 3]
How dreadful is this place. * Surely this is none other but the house of God, and this is the gate of heaven.
