[Rank]
S. Joannis Mariae Vianney Confessoris;;Duplex;;3;;vide C5

[Rule]
vide C5;
9 lectiones

[Oratio]
Almighty and merciful God, who didst make St. John Mary to be wonderful in pastoral zeal and unchanging love for prayer and penance, grant we beseech thee, that by his example and intercession we may be able to gain the souls of our brethren in Christ, and with them to arrive at the glory of eternity.
$Per eumdem

[Commemoratio 2]
!Commemoration of Ss. Cyriacus, Largus et Smaragdus, Martyrs
@Commune/C3:Oratio proper
$Oremus
v. O God, Who dost gladden us by the yearly Feast-day of thine holy Martyrs Cyriacus, Largus, and Smaragdus, mercifully grant unto us who keep their birth-day, the strength to imitate their patience under suffering.
$Per Dominum

[Lectio94]
John Mary Vianney was born in the Village of Dardilly in the diocese of Lyons, and gave many indications of his future sanctity. As an eight year old boy, keeping sheep, he would lead the other children to kneel before the image of the Mother of God, teaching them the rosary by word and example: and he loved to work in the fields and meditate on divine things. He was a great lover of the poor and took delight in helping them in every way. He was slow to learn, but after imploring God's help, and working hard to complete his course in theology, he was judged fit to be ordained. Receiving an appointment as pastor he made spiritual flowers bloom again in a parish that had been nothing but a dried up wasteland. Busy every day hearing confessions and giving spiritual counsel, he bore patiently the most horrible attacks of Satan. He established a practice of making missions in more than a hundred parishes. The faithful came flocking to his parish, even from distant places in a holy desire to see him; but he did not share their high opinion of him, and more than once he tried to slip away. Worn out by his labors rather than his old age, he rested in the Lord at the age of seventy-three, on the day he had foretold, August 4, 1859. Famous for many miracles, he was enrolled among the Blessed by Pius X, and among the Saints by Pius XI, who on the fiftieth anniversary of his own priesthood, appointed him the heavenly patron of all parish priests.
&teDeum
