[Rank]
Sabbato infra Hebdomadam Passionis;;Feria major;;2

[Rule]

[Lectio1]
Continuation of the Holy Gospel according to John
!John 12:10-36
In that time the chief priests thought to kill Lazarus also: Because many of the Jews, by reason of him, went away, and believed in Jesus. And so on.
_
Homily by St Austin, Bishop (of Hippo. )
!5 oth Tract on John.
When they saw Lazarus who had been raised from the dead, and knew that the miracle which the Lord had worked was so great, spread about by so many witnesses, and so plain and manifest that it could neither be concealed nor denied, they invented an expedient; and see here what it was But the chief Priests consulted that they might put Lazarus also to death. What stupidity of thought, what blindness of cruelty is here! If the Lord Christ had raised up again a man who had died a natural death, could He not also raise up one that had died by violence? Would killing Lazarus paralyse the Lord? But if ye consider that there is a difference between a man dead of disease, and a man killed, behold, the Lord hath raised up both for He first raised up Lazarus, who had died a natural death, and then Himself, after a violent one.

[Responsory1]
@Tempora/Quad5-0:Responsory7

[Lectio2]
On the next day much people that were come to the feast, when they heard that Jesus was coming to Jerusalem, took branches of palm-trees, and went forth to meet Him, and cried Hosanna! Blessed is the King of Israel That cometh in the Name of the Lord! Palmbranches are glorious boughs which tell of victory; yea, the Lord was now ready by His Own Death to trample down death, and to carry the victorious banner of His Cross in triumph over the devil, the prince of death. The cry with which He was greeted, namely Hosanna, hath not, as we are assured by some who are acquainted with the Hebrew language, any meaning in particular, but is a shout after the manner of interjections, as they are called, just as in Latin when we lament we say Heu, or when we are pleased, Vah. * is, as He Who is Lord of our intellect, a Ruler Whose power shall never wane, and Who openeth a Kingdom in heaven to all such as centre in Him their faith, their hope, and their love.

[Responsory2]
@Tempora/Quad5-0:Responsory8

[Lectio3]
These were the shouts of applause with which the crowd greeted Him, Hosanna! Blessed is the King of Israel That cometh in the Name of the Lord! What inward torture must the jealousy of the Jewish leaders have caused them, when they heard that great multitude hailing Christ as their King! But, for the Lord, what was it to be King of Israel? To the Eternal King what mattered it to become a King of men? And Christ is not King of Israel in the sense of monarchs who exact tribute, or arm hosts with steel to conquer enemies that are seen. But King of Israel He sitting upon the foal of an ass, as had been foretold in the prophecy of Zacharias, and the multitude came forth to meet Him carrying branches of palmtrees.

[Responsory3]
@Tempora/Quad5-0:Responsory9

[Ant 2]
Father, glorify Thou Me * with thine Own Self, with the glory which had with thee before the world was.

[Oratio 2]
O Lord, we beseech thee that thy people, since they are hallowed as thine Own, may grow ever in godly love toward thee their Father Who art in heaven, and may so be schooled by holy works, that being more and more pleasing in the sight of thy Divine Majesty, they may ever receive more and more of thy gifts.
$Per Dominum

[Capitulum Vespera]
!Phil 2:5-7
v. For let this mind be in you, which was also in Christ Jesus:Who being in the form of God, thought it not robbery to be equal with God:But emptied himself, taking the form of a servant, being made in the likeness of men, and in habit found as a man.
$Deo gratias

[Ant 3]
Pater juste, * mundus te non cognovit: ego autem novi te, quia tu me misisti.

[Oratio 3]
Almighty and everlasting God, Who, of thy tender love towards mankind, hast sent thy Son our Saviour Jesus Christ to take upon Him our flesh and to suffer death upon the Cross, that all mankind should follow the example of His great humility; mercifully grant, that we may both follow the example of His patience, and also be made partakers of His resurrection. 
$Per eumdem
