[Rank]
Ss. Philippi et Jacobi Apostolorum;;Duplex II classis;;5.1;;ex C1

[Rank1960]
Ss. Philippi et Jacobi Apostolorum;;Duplex II classis;;5;;ex C1

[Rule]
ex C1;
9 lectiones
Psalmi Dominica
Antiphonas horas
StJamesRule=Jas

[Ant Vespera]
Lord, show us the Father, * and it sufficeth us. Alleluia;;109
Philip, * He that hath seen Me hath seen the Father. Alleluia;;110
Have I been so long time with you, and yet hast thou not known Me * Philip, he that hath seen Me hath seen the Father. Alleluia;;111
If ye had known Me ye should have known My Father also, * and from henceforth ye know Him and have seen Him. Alleluia, Alleluia, Alleluia;;112
If ye love Me, * keep My commandments. Alleluia, Alleluia, Alleluia;;116

[Ant 1]
Let not your heart be troubled * ye believe in God, believe also in Me. In My Father's house are many mansions. Alleluia, Alleluia.

[Oratio]
O God, Who dost every year gladden us by the solemn memorial of thine Apostles Philip and James, grant us grace, we beseech thee, not only to rejoice because of their worthy deeds, but also to tread in their footsteps.
$Per Dominum

[Lectio1]
Olvasmány szent Jakab apostol levelébõl
!Jas 1:1-6
1 Jakab, Istennek és Urunknak, Jézus Krisztusnak szolgája üdvözletet (küld) a szórványokban élõ tizenkét törzsnek.
2 Testvéreim, tartsátok nagy örömnek, ha különféle megpróbáltatások érnek benneteket.
3 Tudjátok, hogy hitetek próbájának állhatatosság a gyümölcse.
4 Az állhatatosságnak meg tökéletességre kell vezetnie, hogy tökéletesek és feddhetetlenek legyetek, és semmilyen tekintetben ne essetek kifogás alá.
5 Ha valaki közületek bölcsességben szenved hiányt, kérje Istentõl, aki szívesen ad mindenkinek, anélkül, hogy a szemére vetné,
6 s meg is kapja, csak hittel kérje, egy csöppet sem kételkedve. Mert aki kételkedik, hasonlít a tenger hullámaihoz, amelyeket felkorbácsol és ide-oda vet a szél.

[Lectio2]
!Jas 1:6-11
6 s meg is kapja, csak hittel kérje, egy csöppet sem kételkedve. Mert aki kételkedik, hasonlít a tenger hullámaihoz, amelyeket felkorbácsol és ide-oda vet a szél.
7 Az ilyen ember ne higgye, hogy bármit is kap az Úrtól,
8 hiszen a lelkében megosztott ember nem tart ki semmiben sem.
9 Az alacsony rangú testvér viszont dicsekedjék felmagasztalásával,
10 a gazdag meg megalázkodásával, mert mint a rét virága, semmivé lesz.
11 Ha a nap fölkel, perzselõ heve kiégeti a növényt, virága lehull, szépsége elenyészik. Így lesz semmivé a gazdag is a vállalkozásaival.

[Lectio3]
!Jas 1:12-16
12 Boldog az az ember, aki a kísértésben helytáll, mert miután kiállja a próbát, megkapja az élet koszorúját, amelyet az Úr azoknak ígért, akik õt szeretik.
13 Senki se mondja, aki kísértést szenved: "Az Isten kísért", mert az Istent nem lehet rosszra csábítani, és õ sem csábít rosszra senkit.
14 Minden embert a saját kívánsága vonzza és csábítja, így esik tõrbe.
15 Aztán a kívánság, ha már megfogant, bûnt szül, a bûn meg, ha elkövetik, halált szül.
16 Ne legyetek hát tévedésben, szeretett testvéreim.

[Lectio4]
Philip was born in the town of Bethsaida, and was one of the first of the twelve Apostles who were called by the Lord Christ. Then Philip findeth Nathanael, and saith unto him We have found Him of Whom Moses in the Law, and the Prophets, did write." And so he brought him to the Lord. How familiarly he was in the company of Christ, is manifest from that which is written " There were certain Greeks among them that came up to worship at the Feast the same came therefore to Philip, and desired him, saying: Sir, we would see Jesus." When the Lord was in the wilderness, and was about to feed a great multitude, "He said unto Philip Whence shall we buy bread, that these may eat" Philip, after that he had received the Holy Ghost, took Scythia, by lot, as the land wherein he was to preach the Gospel, and brought nearly all that people to believe in Christ. At the last he came to Hierapolis in Phrygia, and there, for Christ's Name's sake, he was fastened to a cross and stoned to death. The day was the first of May. The Christians of Hierapolis buried his body at that place, but it was afterwards brought to Rome and laid in the Basilica of the Twelve Apostles, beside that of the blessed Apostle James.

[Lectio5]
James, surnamed the Just, the brother of our Lord Jesus Christ, was a Nazarite from the womb. During his whole life he never drank wine or strong drink, never ate meat, never shaved, and never took a bath. He was the only man who was allowed to go into the Holy of Holies. His raiment was always linen. So continually did he kneel in prayer, that the skin of his knees became horny, like a camel's knees. After Christ was ascended, the Apostles made James Bishop of Jerusalem and even the Prince of the Apostles gave special intelligence to him after that he was delivered from prison by an angel. When in the Council of Jerusalem certain questions were mooted touching the law and circumcision, James, following the opinion of Peter, addressed a discourse to the brethren, wherein he proved the call of the Gentiles, and commanded letters to be sent to such brethren as were absent, that they might take heed not to lay upon the Gentiles the yoke of the Law of Moses. It is of him that the Apostle Paul saith, writing to the Galatians " Other of the Apostles saw I none, save James the Lord's brother."

[Lectio6]
So great was James' holiness of life that men strove one with another to touch the hem of his garment. When he was ninety-six years old, and had most holily governed the Church of Jerusalem for thirty years, ever most constantly preaching Christ the Son of God, he laid down his life for the faith. He was first stoned, and afterward taken up on to a pinnacle of the Temple and cast down from thence. His legs were broken by the fall, and he was wellnigh dead, but he lifted up his hands towards heaven, and prayed to God for the salvation of his murderers, saying " Lord, forgive them, for they know not what they do " As he said this, one that stood by smote him grievously upon the head with a fuller's club, and he resigned his spirit to God. He testified in the seventh year of Nero, and was buried hard by the Temple, in the place where he had fallen. He wrote one of the Seven Epistles which are called Catholic.

[Lectio7]
Evangélium szent János Apostol kõnyvébõl
!John 14:1-13
Azon idõben így szólt Jézus tanítványaihoz: Ne legyen nyugtalan a szívetek! Higgyetek az Istenben és bennem is higgyetek! Atyám házában sok hely van És így tovább.
_
Homily by St Austin, Bishop of Hippo.
!67th Tract on John.
It behoveth us, my brethren, to have our minds more given to God-ward, if we would that those words of the Holy Gospel which have just sounded in our ears, should become a living reality for our understandings. The Lord Jesus saith " Let not your heart be troubled. Ye believe in God, believe also in Me." Lest, being but men, their heart should be troubled by the fear of death, He strengtheneth them, even by the reminder that He is God. He saith " Ye believe in God, believe also in Me" for if ye believe in God, ye must needs believe in Me. And this were not so, if Christ were not God.

[Lectio8]
We believe in God, believe also in Him Who is by nature and not by robbery equal with God, for in that He emptied Himself, He did it not by laying aside the form of God, but by taking upon Him the form of a* servant. Ye fear death for this form of a servant, but let not your heart be troubled, the form of God will raise it up again." But what signifieth that which followeth " In My Father's house there are many mansions." Was it not that they had fear on their own account, and needed for themselves to hear Him say, " Let not your heart be troubled " Which of them trembled not when they had heard Him say to Peter, the lealest and boldest of them all, "The cock shall not crow this day, before that thou shalt thrice deny that thou knowest Me "

[Lectio9]
Meetly were they troubled, for that they were about to be scattered from Him, but when they heard Him say, "In My Father's house are many mansions," they had been comforted even if He had not also said, "I go to prepare a place for you," for then they believed and knew, that, when all dangers and all trials were for ever over, they should be for ever with the Lord, with Christ and with God. Yea, though one man be stronger than another, though one be wiser than another, though one be holier than another, yet " in My Father's house are many mansions." That house is an house wherein none are strangers, but every man shall receive a mansion therein according as his work shall be.
&teDeum

[Ant Laudes]
Lord, show us the Father, * and it sufficeth us. Alleluia.
Philip, * He that hath seen Me hath seen the Father. Alleluia.
Have I been so long time with you, and yet hast thou not known Me * Philip, he that hath seen Me hath seen the Father. Alleluia.
If ye had known Me ye should have known My Father also, * and from henceforth ye know Him and have seen Him. Alleluia, Alleluia, Alleluia.
If ye love Me, * keep My commandments. Alleluia, Alleluia, Alleluia.

[Ant 2]
I am the Way * the Truth, and the Life no man cometh unto the Father, but by Me. Alleluia.

[Ant 3]
If ye abide in Me * and My words abide in you, ye shall ask what ye will, and it shall be done unto you. Alleluia, Alleluia, Alleluia.

[Ant Vespera 3]
Lord, show us the Father, * and it sufficeth us. Alleluia.;;109
Philip, * He that hath seen Me hath seen the Father. Alleluia.;;112
Have I been so long time with you, and yet hast thou not known Me * Philip, he that hath seen Me hath seen the Father. Alleluia.;;115
If ye had known Me ye should have known My Father also, * and from henceforth ye know Him and have seen Him. Alleluia, Alleluia, Alleluia.;;125
If ye love Me, * keep My commandments. Alleluia, Alleluia, Alleluia.;;138
