[Rank]
Septem Dolorum Beatae Máriae Virgine;;Duplex majus;;4

[Rank1960]
Septem Dolorum Beatae Máriae Virgine;;Commemoratio;;1

[Rule]
Psalmi Dominica
Antiphonas horas
9 lectiones
Gloria responsory

[Ant Vespera]
I will get me to the mountain of myrrh, * and to the hill of frankincense;;115
My beloved * is white and ruddy the hair of his head is like kingly purple, bound in tresses;;119
Whither is thy beloved gone, * O thou fairest among women? Whither is thy beloved turned aside?;;139
A bundle of myrrh is my well-beloved unto me; he shall lie betwixt my breasts;;140
Revive me with flowers, * stay me up with apples, for I am swooning with love;;141

[Capitulum Vespera]
!Isa 53:1-2
v. Ki hitt abban, amit hallottunk, és az Úr karja ki elõtt nyilvánult meg? Úgy nõtt fel elõttünk, mint a hajtás, és mint a gyökér a szomjas földbõl. Nem volt sem szép, sem ékes [hiszen láttuk], a külsejére nézve nem volt vonzó.
$Deo gratias

[Hymnus Vespera]
Áll a fájdalomnak anyja,
Kín az arcát könnybe vonja,
Úgy siratja szent Fiát.
_
Gyász a lelkét meggyötörte,
Kín és bánat összetörte,
Tôrnek éle járta át.
_
Ó mi nagy volt ama drága
Szûzanya szomorúsága,
Egyszülött szent magzatán!
_
Mennyit sírt és hogy kesergett,
Látván azt a nagy keservet,
Azt a nagy kínt szent Fián.
_
Ki ne sírna, melyik ember,
hogyha ennyi gyötrelemben
Látja lankadozni ôt?
_
Ki nem sírna Máriával,
Hogyha látja szent Fiával
Szenvedni a szent Szülôt!
_
Népét hogy megmossa szennytôl,
Látta tenger gyötrelemtôl
Roskadozni Jézusát.
_
Látta édes egy szülöttét,
Halálos nagy elepedtét,
Látta, hogy halálra vált.
_
Szeretetnek szent kútfôje,
Add, a fájdalomnak tôre
Járjon át a lelkemen.
_
Hogy szívemben lángra kelne
Krisztusomnak szent szerelme.
Segíts neki tetszenem.
Ámen.

[Versum 1]
V. Pray for us, O Virgin most sorrowful.
R. That we may be made worthy of the promises of Christ.

[Ant 1]
Simeon said unto Mary * Yea, a sword shall pierce through thine own soul also.

[Oratio]
O God, at Whose Passion, according to the prophecy of Simeon, a sword of sorrow pierced through the gentle soul of the glorious Maiden and Mother Mary, mercifully grant to as many as do ever remember with awe how that her soul was pierced and Thou didst suffer, even for all such be Thou entreated, for the sake and by the prayers of all thy glorious and holy servants who stood so leally by thy Cross, and grant unto the same, that for them thy life-giving Death may not have been in vain.
$Qui vivis

[Commemoratio 1]
!commemoratio Feriæ Quintae
Ant. With desire I have desired * to eat this Passover with you before I suffer.
_
V. Deliver me, O Lord, from the evil man.
R. Preserve me from the wicked man.
_
!Könyörgés
O Lord, we beseech thee deal mercifully with thy people, and fill plentifully with the rich things of thy commandments all them who at this time do, to fulfil thy will, turn away from that which displeaseth thee.
$Per Dominum

[Doxology]
Lord Jesu, slain for us, to thee
Eternal praise be given,
With Father, Spirit, One and Three,
Here as it is in heaven.
Amen.

[Versum Prima]
Who died for our salvation

[Invit]
When we remember the sorrows of the most glorious Virgin, * O come, let us worship the Lord, Who suffered for us

[Hymnus Matutinum]
Esdek, hogy szívembe véssed,
Szûzanyám, nagy szenvedésed
S az Átvertnek sebeit,
_
Gyermekednek, a sebzettnek,
Ki miattam szenvedett meg,
Osszam meg gyötrelmeit.
_
Add meg, kérlek, hogy mig élek,
Együtt sírjak mindig véled
S azzal, ki a fán eped.
_
A keresztnél veled állni,
Gyászban veled eggyé válni:
Erre ûz a szeretet.
Ámen.

[Ant Matutinum]
The kings of the earth set themselves, and the rulers take counsel together against the Lord, and against His Anointed;;2
I cried unto the Lord with my voice, and He heard me out of His holy hill;;3
My heart is like melting wax in the midst of my bowels;;12
V. He hath made me desolate.
R. And faint with sorrow all the day.
Mine enemies speak evil of me When shall he die, and his name perish;;40
O God, I have declared my life unto thee, Thou hast put my tears in thy sight;;55
As for the sons of men, their teeth are spears and arrows, and their tongue a sharp sword;;56
V. My face is swollen with weeping
R. And on mine eyelids is the shadow (of death.)
They bend their bow, even bitter words, that they may shoot in secret at the perfect;;63
I am as a man that hath no strength, lying nerveless among the dead;;87
He hath filled me with bitterness, he hath made me drunken with wormwood;;108
V. O God, I have declared my life unto thee
R. Thou hast put my tears in thy sight.

[Lectio1]
Olvasmány Izaiás próféta könyvébõl
!Isa 53:1-5
1 Ki hitt abban, amit hallottunk, és az Úr karja ki elõtt nyilvánult meg?
2 Úgy nõtt fel elõttünk, mint a hajtás, és mint a gyökér a szomjas földbõl. Nem volt sem szép, sem ékes [hiszen láttuk], a külsejére nézve nem volt vonzó.
3 Megvetett volt, utolsó az emberek között, a fájdalmak férfia, aki tudta, mi a szenvedés; olyan, aki elõl iszonyattal eltakarjuk arcunkat, megvetett, akit bizony nem becsültünk sokra.
4 Bár a mi betegségeinket viselte, és a mi fájdalmaink nehezedtek rá, mégis (Istentõl) megvertnek néztük, olyannak, akire lesújtott az Isten, és akit megalázott.
5 Igen, a mi bûneinkért szúrták át, a mi gonoszságainkért törték össze; a mi békességünkért érte utol a büntetés, az õ sebei szereztek nekünk gyógyulást.

[Responsory1]
R. My Beloved is white and ruddy, yea, He is altogether lovely
* For the sight of Him doth altogether breathe of love, and stirreth up to love in return; His Head is bowed down, His Hands are stretched out, and His Side is opened.
V. Maiden and Mother, thou didst look upon Him with eyes full of tenderness, and there thou sawest not only that thy Son was smitten, but that the world was saved.
R. For the sight of Him doth altogether breathe of love, and stirreth up to love in return; His Head is bowed down, His Hands are stretched out, and His Side is opened.

[Lectio2]
!Isa 53:6-9
6 Mi mindnyájan, mint a juhok, tévelyegtünk, ki-ki a maga útjára tért, és az Úr mégis az õ vállára rakta mindnyájunk gonoszságát.
7 Megkínozták, s õ alázattal elviselte, nem nyitotta ki a száját. Mint a juh, amelyet leölni visznek, vagy amint a bárány elnémul nyírója elõtt, õ sem nyitotta ki a száját.
8 Erõszakos ítélettel végeztek vele. Ugyan ki törõdik egyáltalán ügyével? Igen, kitépték az élõk földjébõl, és bûneink miatt halállal sújtották.
9 A gonoszok közt adtak neki sírboltot, és a gazdagok mellé temették el, bár nem vitt végbe gonoszságot, sem álnokság nem volt a szájában.

[Responsory2]
R. His hands are like rings, pierced with the points of the nails;
* Set with price of man's salvation, as it were with jacinths.
V. He had horns coming out of His hands there was the hiding of His power for His Hands are
R. Set with the price of man's salvation, as it were with jacinths.

[Lectio3]
!Isa 53:10-12
10 Úgy tetszett az Úrnak, hogy összetöri a szenvedéssel. Ha odaadja életét engesztelõ áldozatul: látni fogja utódait, hosszúra nyúlik élete, és teljesül általa az Úr akarata.
11 "Majd ha véget ér lelkének gyötrelme, látni fogja a világosságot, és megelégedés tölti el. Szenvedésével sokakat megigazultakká tesz szolgám, mivel gonoszságaikat magára vállalta.
12 Ezért osztályrészül sokakat adok neki, és a hatalmasok lesznek a zsákmánya, amiért életét halálra adta, és a gonosztevõk közé sorolták, noha sokak vétkeit hordozta, és közben imádkozott a bûnösökért."

[Responsory3]
R. Jesus loved John because his singular gift of purity made him more worthy of love.
* He chose him for a virgin unto Himself, and he remaineth a virgin for ever.
V. At the end, when He was dying upon the Cross, to him did He commit His mother, maiden to maiden.
R. He chose him for a virgin unto Himself, and he remaineth a virgin for ever.
&Gloria
R. He chose him for a virgin unto Himself, and he remaineth a virgin for ever.

[Lectio4]
From the Sermons of St Bernard, Abbat (of Clairvaux.)
!On the twelve stars.
The Martyrdom of the Virgin is set before us, not only in the prophecy of Simeon, but also in the story itself of the Lord's Passion. The holy old man said of the Child Jesus (Luke ii. 34,) Behold, this Child is set for the fall and the rising again of many in Israel; and for a sign which shall be spoken against; yea, (said he unto Mary,) a sword shall pierce through thine own soul also Even so, O Blessed Mother! The sword did indeed pierce through thy soul! for nought could pierce the Body of thy Son, nor pierce thy soul likewise. Yea, and when this Jesus of thine had given up the ghost, and the bloody spear could torture Him no more, thy soul winced as it pierced His dead Side His Own Soul might leave Him, but thine could not.

[Responsory4]
R. The Jews crucified Jesus; and there was darkness; and about the ninth hour Jesus cried with a loud voice My God, why hast Thou forsaken Me?
* And He bowed His Head, and gave up the Ghost.
V. O what a sickening at heart was thine at that moment, O Mother!
R. And He bowed His Head, and gave up the Ghost.

[Lectio5]
The sword of sorrow pierced through thy soul, so that we may truly call thee more than martyr, in whom the love, that made thee suffer along with thy Son, wrung thy heart more bitterly than any pang of bodily pain could do. Did not that word of His indeed pierce through thy soul, sharper than any two-edged~
sword, even to the dividing asunder of soul and spirit, (Heb. iv. 12,) Woman, behold thy son! (John xix. 26.) O what a change to thee! Thou art given John for Jesus, the servant for his Lord, the disciple for his master, the son of Zebedee for the Son of God, a mere man for Very God. O how keenly must the hearing of those words have pierced through thy most loving soul, when even our hearts, stony, iron, as they are, are wrung at the memory thereof only!

[Responsory5]
R. The suffering of the Lord was
* Asorrow exceeding sorrowful to her, His Mother, crushed by a natural bereavement.
V. The iron of the soldier's lance pierced through the Side of the Redeemer, and through the soul of the Virgin Mother.
R. A sorrow exceeding sorrowful to her, His Mother, crushed by a natural bereavement.

[Lectio6]
Marvel not, my brethren, that Mary should be called a Martyr in spirit. He indeed may marvel who remembereth not what Paul saith, naming the greater sins of the Gentiles, that they were without natural affection, (Rom. i. 31.) Far other were the bowels of Mary, and far other may those of her servants be! But some man perchance will say Did she not know that He was to die? Yea, without doubt, she knew it. Did she not hope that He was soon to rise again? Yea, she most faithfully hoped it. And did she still mourn because He was crucified? Yea, bitterly. But who art thou, my brother, or whence hast thou such wisdom, to marvel less that the Son of Mary suffered than that Mary suffered with Him? He could die in the Body, and could not she die with Him in her heart? His was the~
deed of that Love, greater than which hath no man (John xv. 13;) hers, of a love, like to which hath no man, save He.

[Responsory6]
R. O that Thou wert my brother, that sucked the breasts of my mother, that I might cleave unto thy Side, till thy Blood touched my blood, and cleansed it!
* O that the Fountain of Water Which floweth from the Well-head of thy Righteous Heart, through thy Veins, Who hast done all things well, may at the last spring up for us into everlasting blessedness!
V. thy sons shall come from far, and thy daughters shall be nursed at thy Side.
R. O that the Fountain of Water Which floweth from the Wellhead of thy Righteous Heart, through thy Veins, Who hast done all things well, may at the last spring up for us into everlasting blessedness!
&Gloria
R. O that the Fountain of Water Which floweth from the Wellhead of thy Righteous Heart, through thy Veins, Who hast done all things well, may at the last spring up for us into everlasting blessedness!

[Lectio7]
Evangélium szent János Apostol kõnyvébõl
!John 19:25-27.
Azon idõben Jézus keresztje alatt ott állt anyja, anyjának nõvére, Mária, aki Kleofás felesége volt és Mária Magdolna. És így tovább.
_
Homily by St Austin, Bishop (of Hippo.)
!11th Tract on John.
This is that hour whereof Jesus, when He was about to turn water into wine, had said unto His Mother Woman, what have I to do with thee? Mine hour is not yet come. (John ii. 4.) He had spoken of this hour, which then was not yet come, wherein, being about to die, it should be His duty to acknowledge her of whom He had been born in a dying Body. Then, since He was about to work the works of God, He thrust from Him, as though He knew her not, her who was His Mother, not in that nature as touching which He is equal to the Father, but in that as touching~
which He is inferior to the Father. But now, since He is suffering the pains of Man, He careth, with a Man's love, for her of whom He hath been made Man. And herein He giveth us a lesson. He doth that which He would have us to do. The Good Master, by His Own example, commandeth that among His disciples, dutiful children should succour their parents, as though even that Tree whereupon His dying Limbs were nailed, even that Tree were to be a pulpit for His teaching.

[Responsory7]
R. I am distressed for thee, my Son Jesus, very pleasant hast Thou been unto me; thy love to me was wonderful, passing the love of women;
* For even as a mother loveth her only Son, so loved I thee.
V. My life is spent with grief, and my years with sighing.
R. For even as a mother loveth her only Son, so loved I thee.

[Lectio8]
And of this teaching by Jesus Crucified cometh that which the Apostle Paul~
commandeth, where he saith, (1 Tim. v. 8) If any provide not for his own, and specially for those of his own house, he hath denied the faith, and is worse than an infidel. But what is so much of a man's own house, as children are of their parents'? and parents of their children's? Of this most healthy law the Master of the Saints was pleased Himself to give an example, when, being God, He treated not as His handmaid her of whom He was the Maker and the Lord, but, being also Man, gave another to be as a son in His stead, to her of whom as Man He had been made, and whom He was leaving.

[Responsory8]
R. Fount of love and holy sorrow, Mother! may my spirit borrow Somewhat of thy woe profound;
* Unto Christ, with pure emotion, Raise my contrite heart's devotion, Love to read in every Wound.
V. That as thy Son Jesus for our sakes died and rose again, so we also who have died with Him may rise again with Him.
R. Unto Christ, with pure emotion, Raise my contrite heart's devotion, Love to read in every Wound.
&Gloria
R. Unto Christ, with pure emotion, Raise my contrite heart's devotion, Love to read in every Wound.

[Lectio9]
!de Homilia Feriæ.
Evangélium szent János könyvébõl
!John 11:47-54
Azon idõben a fõpapok és a farizeusok összehívták a fõtanácsot, és megkérdezték: "Mit tegyünk? Ez az ember nagyon sok csodát tesz. És így tovább.
_
Homily by St Austin, Bishop (of Hippo.)
!49th Tract on John.
The chief Priests and the Pharisees took counsel together, but Let us believe in Him was not one of the suggestions offered. Those lost creatures thought much more how they might hurt and undo Him, than how they might save themselves from perishing. And yet they were afraid, and took counsel together, and said What do we? For this Man doeth many miracles. If we let Him thus alone, all men will believe on Him; and the Romans shall come and take away both our place and our nation. They were afraid of losing temporal things, but they gave no thought to eternal life, and so they lost both.
&teDeum

[Ant Laudes]
I will get me to the mountain of myrrh, * and to the hill of frankincense.
My beloved * is white and ruddy the hair of his head is like kingly purple, bound in tresses.
Whither is thy beloved gone, * O thou fairest among women? Whither is thy beloved turned aside?
A bundle of myrrh is my well-beloved unto me; he shall lie betwixt my breasts.
Revive me with flowers, * stay me up with apples, for I am swooning with love.

[Capitulum Laudes]
!Isa 53:1-2
v. Ki hitt abban, amit hallottunk, és az Úr karja ki elõtt nyilvánult meg? Úgy nõtt fel elõttünk, mint a hajtás, és mint a gyökér a szomjas földbõl. Nem volt sem szép, sem ékes [hiszen láttuk], a külsejére nézve nem volt vonzó.
$Deo gratias

[Hymnus Laudes]
Dicsô szûze szent szûzeknek,
Hadd ízleljem kelyhedet meg:
Add nekem fájdalmaid:
_
Add tisztelnem, add viselnem,
S nem felednem: holt Szerelmem,
Krisztusomnak kínjait.
_
Sebeivel sebesítsen,
Szent mámorba részegítsen
Buzgó vérével Fiad.
_
Hogy ne jussak ama tûzbe,
Védj meg engem, drága Szûz te,
Ha az ítélet riad.
_
Krisztusom, ha jô halálom,
Anyád szeme rám találjon,
És elhívjon engemet.
_
S hogyha testem porba tér meg,
Lelkem akkor a nagy égnek
Dicsôségét lelje meg.
Ámen.

[Versum 2]
V. Pray for us, O Virgin most sorrowful!
R. That we may be made worthy of the promises of Christ.

[Ant 2]
When Jesus saw His Mother, * and the disciple whom He loved, standing by the Cross, He saith unto His Mother Woman, behold thy Son! Then saith He to the disciple Behold thy Mother!

[Commemoratio 2]
!Commemoratio Feria Sexta
Ant. Now the Jews' Feastday was at hand, and the chief Priests sought how they might kill Jesus; but they feared the people.
_
V. Deliver me from mine enemies, O my God.
R. And defend me from them that rise up against me.
_
!Könyörgés.
We beseech thee, O Lord, pour thy grace into our hearts, that all we who of our own will do check our sins with the curb of mortification, may suffer here, and escape condemnation to eternal punishment hereafter.
$Per Dominum

[Lectio Prima]
!Isa 53:8
v. Erõszakos ítélettel végeztek vele. Ugyan ki törõdik egyáltalán ügyével? Igen, kitépték az élõk földjébõl, és bûneink miatt halállal sújtották.

[Capitulum Tertia]
!Isa 53:1-2
v. Ki hitt abban, amit hallottunk, és az Úr karja ki elõtt nyilvánult meg? Úgy nõtt fel elõttünk, mint a hajtás, és mint a gyökér a szomjas földbõl. Nem volt sem szép, sem ékes [hiszen láttuk], a külsejére nézve nem volt vonzó.
$Deo gratias

[Responsory Tertia]
R.br. He hath made me desolate.
R. He hath made me desolate.
V. And faint with sorrow all the day.
R. Desolate.
&Gloria
R. He hath made me desolate.
_
V. My face is swollen with weeping.
R. And on mine eyelids is the shadow (of death.)

[Capitulum Sexta]
!Isa 53:5
v. Igen, a mi bûneinkért szúrták át, a mi gonoszságainkért törték össze; a mi békességünkért érte utol a büntetés, az õ sebei szereztek nekünk gyógyulást.
$Deo gratias

[Responsory Sexta]
R.br. My face is swollen with weeping.
R. My face is swollen with weeping.
V. And on my eyelids is the shadow (of death.)
R. Swollen with weeping.
&Gloria
R. My face is swollen with weeping.
_
V. O God, I have declared my life unto thee,
R. Thou hast put my tears in thy sight.

[Capitulum Nona]
!Isa 53:8
v. Erõszakos ítélettel végeztek vele. Ugyan ki törõdik egyáltalán ügyével? Igen, kitépték az élõk földjébõl, és bûneink miatt halállal sújtották.
$Deo gratias

[Responsory Nona]
R.br. O God, I have declared my life unto thee
R. O God, I have declared my life unto thee
V. Thou hast put my tears in thy sight.
R. I have declared my life unto thee.
&Gloria
R. O God, I have declared my life unto thee.
_
V. Pray for us, O Virgin most sorrowful!
R. That we may be made worthy of the promises of Christ.

[Versum 3]
V. Pray for us, O Virgin most sorrowful!
R. That we may be made worthy of the promises of Christ.

[Ant 3]
When Jesus saw His Mother, * and the disciple whom He loved, standing by the Cross, He saith unto His Mother Woman, behold thy Son! Then saith He to the disciple Behold thy Mother!

[Commemoratio 3]
!Commemoratio Feriæ Sextae
Ant. The chief Priests consulted that they might kill Jesus, but they said Not on the Feast-day, lest there be an uproar among the people.
_
V. Deliver me from mine enemies, O my God.
R. And defend me from them that rise up against me.
_
!Könyörgés
Grant, we beseech thee, O Almighty God, that we who seek the grace of thy protection, being delivered from all evils, may serve thee ever in peace and quietness of spirit.
$Per Dominum
