[Rank]
Inventione Sanctae crucis;;Duplex II classis;;5.2;;

[Rule]
proprium
9 lectiones
Psalmi Dominica
Antiphonas horas
Psalm5 Vespera=116

[Ant Vespera]
O what a work of love was that * when Life and death died together upon the Tree. (Alleluia.)
Save us, * O Christ the Saviour, save us through the might of thy Cross Thou Who didst save Peter when he was ready to sink in the sea, have mercy upon us (Alleluia.)
Behold the Cross of the Lord * fly, ye ranks of the adversary The Lion of the tribe of Judah, the Root of David, hath prevailed. Alleluia.
But us it behoveth to glory * in the Cross of our Lord Jesus Christ. (Alleluia)
By thy Cross' holy sign, * Jesus, guard this soul of mine from my ghostly enemy. (Alleluia.)

[Capitulum Vespera]
!Phil 2:5-7
v. Testvérek: Ugyanazt a lelkületet ápoljátok magatokban, amely Krisztus Jézusban volt. Õ Isten formájában volt, és az Istennel való egyenlõséget nem tartotta olyan dolognak, amelyhez föltétlenül ragaszkodnia kell, hanem kiüresítette magát, szolgai alakot öltött, és hasonló lett az emberekhez. Külsejét tekintve olyan lett, mint egy ember.
$Deo gratias.

[Hymnus Vespera]
@Psalterium/Major Special:Hymnus Quad5 Vespera

[Versum 1]
V. This sign of the Cross shall be in heaven. (Alleluia.)
R. When the Lord cometh to judgment. (Alleluia.)

[Ant 1]
Hail, O Cross * Brighter than all the stars thy name is honourable upon earth To the eyes of men thou art exceeding lovely Holy art thou among all things that are earthly thy transom made the one worthy balance whereon the price of the world was weighed Sweetest wood and sweetest iron, Sweetest weight is hung on thee O that every one that is here gathered this day to praise thee may find that thou art indeed salvation for him (Alleluia, Alleluia.)

[Oratio]
O God, Who didst cause that the Cross of our salvation should in most honourable wise be found again, and Who didst manifest thereby the marvellous efficacy of thy sufferings, mercifully grant that by the Ransom which Thou didst pay upon that tree of life we may finally attain unto life eternal
$Qui vivis

[Invit]
Christ crucified is our King. * O come, let us worship Him. (Alleluia.)

[Hymnus Matutinum]
@Psalterium/Matutinum Special:Hymnus Quad5

[Ant Matutinum]
All the earth this day * is making glad memorial of the finding of the Cross, whose light is streaming over every land and people. Alleluia.;;1
;;2
;;3
V. This sign of the Cross shall be in heaven. Alleluia.
R. When the Lord cometh to judgment. Alleluia.
Lo, the Cross's happy triumph, fraught with healing of diseases, Tree whereon the True Life dying trampled down the death of all men. Alleluia;;4
;;5
;;8
V. We adore thee, O Christ, and we bless thee. Alleluia.
R. Because that through thy Cross Thou hast redeemed the world. Alleluia.
We adore thee, O Christ, and we bless thee, because that through thy Cross Thou hast redeemed the world. Alleluia;;95
;;96
;;97
V. Let all the earth worship thee, and sing unto thee. Alleluia.
R. Let them sing praises to thy Name, O Lord. Alleluia.

[Lectio1]
Olvasmány szent Pál apostol Galatákhoz irott levelébõl
!Gal 3:10-14
10 Azokat viszont, akik a törvény szerinti tetteikre támaszkodnak, átok sújtja. Az Írás ugyanis ezt mondja: "Átkozott mind, aki nem tartja meg hûségesen, ami a törvényben van."
11 Ebbõl nyilvánvaló, hogy a törvény útján senki nem válik az Isten elõtt igazzá, mert "az igaz a hitbõl él".
12 A törvény azonban nem a hitbõl származik, hanem: "Aki teljesíti, élni fog."
13 Krisztus megváltott minket a törvény átkától, amikor átokká lett értünk. Hiszen az Írás szerint: "Átkozott mind, aki a fán függ."
14 Így szállt az Ábrahámnak szóló áldás Krisztus Jézus által a pogányokra, hogy a hitben elnyerjük a Lélek ígéretét.

[Responsory1]
R. Lo the Church, with solemn gladness, hails the day for ever glorious, when the opening earth revealeth that dread tree of mystic triumph.
* On whose boughs her dying Saviour shattered death and crushed the serpent. (Alleluia, Alleluia, Alleluia.)
V. He the Word of God eternal, on those stately branches hanging, hath for us a new way opened.
R. On whose boughs her dying Saviour shattered death and crushed the serpent. (Alleluia, Alleluia, Alleluia.)

[Lectio2]
From the letter to the Philippines
!Phil 2:5-11
5 Ugyanazt a lelkületet ápoljátok magatokban, amely Krisztus Jézusban volt.
6 Õ Isten formájában volt, és az Istennel való egyenlõséget nem tartotta olyan dolognak, amelyhez föltétlenül ragaszkodnia kell,
7 hanem kiüresítette magát, szolgai alakot öltött, és hasonló lett az emberekhez. Külsejét tekintve olyan lett, mint egy ember.
8 Megalázta magát és engedelmeskedett mindhalálig, mégpedig a kereszthalálig.
9 Ezért Isten felmagasztalta, és olyan nevet adott neki, amely fölötte van minden névnek,
10 hogy Jézus nevére hajoljon meg minden térd a mennyben, a földön és az alvilágban,
11 s minden nyelv hirdesse az Atyaisten dicsõségére, hogy Jézus Krisztus az Úr.

[Responsory2]
R. Faithful Cross, above all other, one and only noble tree None in foliage, none in blossom, none in fruit thy peers may be
* Sweetest wood and sweetest iron, Sweetest weight is hung on thee. (Alleluia.)
V. Thou art higher than all cedars.
R. Sweetest wood, and sweetest iron, Sweetest weight is hung on thee. (Alleluia.)

[Lectio3]
From the letter to the Colossians.
!Col 2:9-15
9 Mert benne lakik testi formában az istenség egész teljessége, s benne lettetek ennek a teljességnek részesei.
10 Õ minden fejedelemségnek és hatalmasságnak feje.
11 Benne vagytok körülmetélve, nem kézzel, hanem az érzékies test levetésével, a krisztusi körülmetéléssel.
12 Benne temetkeztetek el a keresztségben, és benne támadtatok fel, annak az Istennek az erejébe vetett hit által, aki Õt a halálból feltámasztotta.
13 Titeket tehát, akik bûneitek és testi körülmetéletlenségetek következtében halottak voltatok, vele együtt életre keltett. Megbocsátotta minden bûnünket.
14 A követelményeivel ellenünk szóló adóslevelet eltörölte, az útból eltávolította és a keresztre szegezte.
15 Lefegyverezte a fejedelemségeket és a hatalmasságokat, nyilvánosan pellengérre állította õket, és Krisztusban diadalmaskodott rajtuk.

[Responsory3]
R. This is that noble tree, planted in the midst of the garden
* Whereon the Author of our salvation did by His Own death openly triumph over the death of all men. (Alleluia, Alleluia.)
V. Even the Cross, whereof the glory is so excellent, and whereafter Helen, the mother of Constantine, did so diligently search until she found it.
R. Whereon the Author of our salvation did by His Own death openly triumph over the death of all men. (Alleluia, Alleluia.)
&Gloria
R. Whereon the Author of our salvation did by His Own death openly triumph over the death of all men. (Alleluia, Alleluia.)

[Lectio4]
After that famous victory which the Emperor Constantine gained over Maxentius, (in the year 312,) on the eve of which the banner of the Cross of the Lord had been given to him from heaven, Helen, the mother of Constantine, being warned in a dream, came to Jerusalem, (in 326,) to seek for the Cross. There it was her care to cause to be overthrown the marble statue of Venus, which had stood on Calvary for about one hundred and eighty years, and which had orignally been put there to desecrate and destroy the memorial of the sufferings of the Lord Christ. The like work Helen did at Bethlehem, by cleansing from an image of Adonis the stable where the Saviour was born, and from an idol of Jupiter, the place where He had arisen from the dead.

[Responsory4]
R. But us it behoveth to glory in the Cross of our Lord Jesus Christ, in Whom is our salvation, life, and resurrection
* Who hath saved us and redeemed us. (Alleluia.)
V. O Lord, we worship thy Cross, and make memorial of thy glorious passion.
R. Who hath saved us and redeemed us. (Alleluia.)

[Lectio5]
Then she had thus cleansed the place where the Cross had stood, Helen caused deep excavations to be made, which resulted in the discovery of three crosses, and, apart from them, the writing which had been nailed on that of the Lord. But which of the crosses had been His was unknown, and was only manifested by a miracle. Macarius, Bishop of Jerusalem, after offering solemn prayers to God, touched with each of the three a woman who was afflicted with a grievous disease. The two first had no effect, but at the touch of the third she was immediately healed.

[Responsory5]
R. The Relique true from heaven revealed, hath now the Gospel's figure sealed
* As by the serpent Moses reared, so by the Cross the sick are healed. (Alleluia, Alleluia.)
V. When the dead touch the Cross they arise, and the wonderful works of God are made manifest.
R. As by the serpent Moses reared, so by the Cross the sick are healed. (Alleluia, Alleluia.)

[Lectio6]
Helen, after she had found the life-giving Cross, built over the site of the Passion a Church of extraordinary splendour, wherein she deposited part of the Cross, shut up in a silver case. Another part which she gave to her son, Constantine, was laid up in the Church of the Holy Cross of Jerusalem, which he built at Rome on the site of the Sessorian Palace. She also gave to her son the nails with which the Most Holy Body of Jesus Christ had been pierced. Constantine established a law abolishing the punishment of crucifixion for all time coming and thenceforth what had hitherto been a hissing and a curse among men, began to be esteemed worshipful and glorious.

[Responsory6]
R. This Sign of the Cross shall be in heaven, when the Lord cometh to judgment.
* Then shall the secrets of our hearts be made manifest. (Alleluia, Alleluia.)
V. When the Son of Man shall sit in the throne of His glory, and shall begin to judge the world by fire.
R. Then shall the secrets of our hearts be made manifest. (Alleluia, Alleluia.)
&Gloria
R. Then shall the secrets of our hearts be made manifest. (Alleluia, Alleluia.)

[Lectio7]
Evangélium szent János Apostol kõnyvébõl
!John 3:1-15
Azon idõben volt a farizeusok között egy Nikodémus nevû ember, egy zsidó tanácsos. Ez éjnek idején fölkereste Jézust, s így szólt hozzá: Rabbi, tudjuk, hogy Istentõl jött tanító vagy És így tovább.
_
Homily by St Austin, Bishop of Hippo
!11th Tract on John.
Nicodemus was one of them which believed in the Name of Jesus, when they saw the signs and wonders which He did. So hath John given us to understand a few words before our text: "Now when He was in Jerusalem at the Passover, in the feast-day, many believed in His Name" And wherefore did they believe in His Name John telleth us immediately: "When they saw the miracles which He did." And now, what saith he touching Nicodemus? "There was a man of the Pharisees, named Nicodemus, a ruler of the Jews. The same came to Jesus by night, and said unto Him Rabbi, we know that Thou art a Teacher come from God." Nicodemus therefore believed in His Name. And why did he believe He saith " For no man can do these miracles that Thou doest, except God be with him."

[Responsory7]
R. Sweetest wood and sweetest iron, Sweetest weight is hung on thee
* Thou alone wast counted worthy this world's ransom to uphold. (Alleluia.)
V. The sign of the Cross shall be in heaven when the Lord cometh to judgment.
R. Thou alone wast counted worthy this world's ransom to uphold. (Alleluia.)

[Lectio8]
Lo, then, Nicodemus was one of the many which had believed in His Name, let us seek to find in Nicodemus why "Jesus did not commit Himself unto them" "Jesus answered and said unto him Amen, Amen, I say unto thee except a man be born again, he cannot see the kingdom of God." Jesus therefore committeth Himself unto such as be born again. Behold, Nicodemus and they that were with him believed in Jesus, but Jesus did not commit Himself unto them. Just so are all Catechumens they believe in the Name of Christ, but Jesus hath not yet committed Himself unto them. Now I trust ye will be good enough to pay attention, and understand what I am going to say. If ye ask of a Catechumen " Dost thou believe in Christ " he saith " I believe," and he signeth himself with the sign of the Cross. The Cross of his Lord is marked upon his forehead, and he is not ashamed of it. Behold, he believeth in the Name of Christ. But let us ask him " Dost thou eat the flesh of the Son of Man " and he knoweth not what we mean, for Jesus hath not yet committed Himself unto him.

[Responsory8]
R. As Moses lifted up the serpent in the wilderness, even so must the Son of Man be lifted up
* That whosoever believeth in Him should not perish, but have everlasting life. (Alleluia.)
V. God sent not His Son into the world to condemn the world, but that the world through Him might be saved.
R. That whosoever believeth in Him should not perish, but have everlasting life. (Alleluia.)
&Gloria
R. That whosoever believeth in Him should not perish, but have everlasting life. (Alleluia.)

[Lectio93]
!Commemoratio of Pope Alexander
Alexander was a Roman, who ruled the Church during the reign of the Emperor Hadrian. He turned to Christ a great number of the Roman nobility. He ordained that nothing but bread and wine should be offered at the mystery, but that some water should be mingled with the wine, in memory of the Blood and Water Which flowed from the Side of Jesus Christ. He added to the Canon of the Mass the words " Who, the night before He suffered." He also ordained that blessed water mingled with salt, should be kept always in Churches, and should be used in private rooms to scare away devils. He sat in the throne of Peter ten years, five months, and twenty days. He hath great renown on account of the holiness of his life, and the usefulness of his institutions. He was crowned with martyrdom, (in the year 119,) together with the Priests Eventius and Theodulus, and was buried beside the Nomentan Way, at the third mile-stone from the city, in the same place where he had been beheaded. During his Popedom he held divers Advent ordinations, and at them ordained six Priests, two Deacons, and five Bishops for divers places. The bodies of these three Martyrs, Alexander, Eventius, and Theodulus, were afterwards brought into the city, and buried in the Church of St Sabina. On this day likewise, (about the year 367,) occurred the blessed death of Juvenal, the holy Bishop of Narni, who by the holiness of his life and teaching, became the father in Christ of so many of the dwellers in that city. He fell asleep very peacefully, with great fame for miracles, and was there honourably buried.
&teDeum

[Ant Laudes]
O what a work of love was that * when Life and death died together upon the Tree. (Alleluia.)
Save us, * O Christ the Saviour, save us through the might of thy Cross Thou Who didst save Peter when he was ready to sink in the sea, have mercy upon us. (Alleluia.)
Behold the Cross of the Lord * fly, ye ranks of the adversary The Lion of the tribe of Judah, the Root of David, hath prevailed. Alleluia.
But us it behoveth to glory * in the Cross of our Lord Jesus Christ. (Alleluia.)
By thy Cross' holy sign, * Jesus, guard this soul of mine from my ghostly enemy. (Alleluia.)

[Capitulum Laudes]
!Phil 2:5-7
v. Testvérek: Ugyanazt a lelkületet ápoljátok magatokban, amely Krisztus Jézusban volt. Õ Isten formájában volt, és az Istennel való egyenlõséget nem tartotta olyan dolognak, amelyhez föltétlenül ragaszkodnia kell, hanem kiüresítette magát, szolgai alakot öltött, és hasonló lett az emberekhez. Külsejét tekintve olyan lett, mint egy ember.
$Deo gratias.

[Hymnus Laudes]
@Psalterium/Major Special:Hymnus Quad5 Laudes

[Versum 2]
V. We adore thee, O Christ, and we bless thee. (Alleluia.)
R. Because that through thy Cross Thou hast redeemed the world. (Alleluia.)

[Ant 2]
Thou art higher * than all cedars, whereon the Life of the world hung, whereon~
Christ openly triumphed, and His death trampled down death for ever. (Alleluia.)

[Commemoratio 2]
!Commemoratio Ss. Martyrum.
Ant. Come forth, O ye daughters of Jerusalem, and behold the martyrs with the crowns where with the Lord crowned them in the day of His feasting and of His gladness. (Alleluia, Alleluia.)
_
V. Precious in the sight of the Lord. (Alleluia.)
R. Is the death of His Saints. (Alleluia.)
_
!Könyörgés
Grant, we beseech thee, O Almighty God, that we who do keep the birthday of thy holy servants Alexander, Eventius, Theodulus, and Juvenal, may by their prayers be delivered from all evils that presently hang over us.
$Per Dominum.

[Lectio Prima]
!Phil 2:8-9
v. Megalázta magát és engedelmeskedett mindhalálig, mégpedig a kereszthalálig. Ezért Isten felmagasztalta, és olyan nevet adott neki, amely fölötte van minden névnek,

[Capitulum Tertia]
!Phil 2:5-7.
v. Testvérek: Ugyanazt a lelkületet ápoljátok magatokban, amely Krisztus Jézusban volt. Õ Isten formájában volt, és az Istennel való egyenlõséget nem tartotta olyan dolognak, amelyhez föltétlenül ragaszkodnia kell, hanem kiüresítette magát, szolgai alakot öltött, és hasonló lett az emberekhez. Külsejét tekintve olyan lett, mint egy ember.
$Deo gratias

[Responsory Tertia]
R.br. This sign of the Cross shall be in heaven. Alleluia, Alleluia.
R. This sign of the Cross shall be in heaven. Alleluia, Alleluia.
V. When the Lord cometh to judgment.
R. Alleluia, Alleluia.
&Gloria
R. This sign of the Cross shall be in heaven. Alleluia, Alleluia.
_
V. We adore thee, O Christ, and we bless thee. Alleluia.
R. Because that through thy Cross Thou hast redeemed the world. Alleluia.

[Capitulum Sexta]
!Gal 6:14
v. Én azonban nem akarok mással dicsekedni, mint Urunk, Jézus Krisztus keresztjével. Általa keresztre szegezték nekem a világot, és engem is a világnak.
$Deo gratias

[Responsory Sexta]
R.br. We adore thee, O Christ, and we bless thee. Alleluia, Alleluia.
R. We adore thee, O Christ, and we bless thee. Alleluia, Alleluia.
V. Because that through thy Cross Thou hast redeemed the world.
R. Alleluia, Alleluia.
&Gloria
R. We adore thee, O Christ, and we bless thee. Alleluia, Alleluia.
_
V. Let all the earth worship thee, and sing unto thee. Alleluia.
R. Let them sing praises to thy Name, O Lord. Alleluia.

[Capitulum Nona]
!Phil 2:8-9
v. Megalázta magát és engedelmeskedett mindhalálig, mégpedig a kereszthalálig. Ezért Isten felmagasztalta, és olyan nevet adott neki, amely fölötte van minden névnek,
$Deo gratias

[Responsory Nona]
R.br. Let all the earth worship thee, and sing unto thee. Alleluia, Alleluia.
R. Let all the earth worship thee, and sing unto thee. Alleluia, Alleluia.
V. Let them sing praises to thy Name, O Lord.
R. Alleluia, Alleluia.
&Gloria
R. Let all the earth worship thee, and sing unto thee. Alleluia, Alleluia.
_
V. This sign of the Cross shall be in heaven. Alleluia.
R. When the Lord cometh to judgment. Alleluia.

[Ant 3]
Jesus, our Triumphant Head, * on the Cross' ransom dread the Hands of power and mercy spread that broke the prison of the dead. Alleluia.
