[Rank]
Feria Sexta in Parasceve;;Feria privilegiata Duplex I classis;;7

[Rule]
Psalmi minores Dominica
Antiphonas horas
Omit Incipit Invitatorium Hymnus Capitulum Lectio Commemoratio Preces Suffragium Conclusion
Limit Benedictiones Oratio
9 Lectiones 1960
Capitulum Versum 2
Minores sine Antiphona

[Ant Matutinum]
The kings of the earth stood up, and the princes met together, against the Lord and against his Christ.;;2
They parted my garments amongst them; and upon my vesture they cast lots;;21
for unjust witnesses have risen up against me;;26
V.They parted my garments amongst them;
R. And upon my vesture they cast lots
They that sought my soul used violence;;37
Let them be confounded and ashamed together, that seek after my soul to take it away;;39
For strangers have risen up against me; and the mighty have sought after my soul;;53
V. Unjust witnesses have risen up against me;
R. And iniquity hath lied to itself
Defend me O Lord from them that rise up against me, for they seized my soul;;58
Thou hast put away my acquaintance far from me: I was delivered up, and came not forth;;87
They will hunt after the soul of the just, and will condemn innocent blood.;;93
V. They have spoken against with deceitful tongues;
R. and they have compassed me about with words of hatred; and have fought against me without cause.

[Lectio1]
Olvasmány Jeremiás próféta siralmainak könyvébõl
!Lam 2:8-12
8 Elhatározta az Úr, hogy lerombolja Sion leányának falait. Kifeszítette a mérõzsinórt, s nem vonta vissza a kezét, amíg teljesen el nem pusztította. Gyászba borult a sánc és a kõfal; romokban hever mind a kettõ.
9 Kapui a földbe süllyedtek; leverte és összetörte zárait. Királya és fejedelmei a pogányok közt vannak, megszûnt a törvény. Prófétái nem kapnak többé látomást az Úrtól.
10 A földön ülnek szótlanul Sion leányának vénei. Hamut szórtak a fejükre, és szõrzsákba öltöztek. Mélyen lehorgasztották a fejüket Jeruzsálem hajadon leányai.
11 Szemem elsorvadt a sírástól, a bensõm megrendült. Megfordult a szívem bennem népem leányának romlása miatt. Mert apró gyerekek és csecsemõk pusztulnak el a város terein.
12 Azt kérdezgették anyjuktól, hogy hol a kenyér és a bor, amikor elpusztultak, mint a sebesültek a város terein, és amikor kilehelték lelküket anyjuk ölében.
r. Jerusalem, Jerusalem, térj meg Uradhoz Istenedhez.

[Responsory1]
R. All my friends abandoned me, those who lie win over me, whom I loved most, turned against me
* Crude enemies with terrible eyes, gave me vinegar to drink
V. They cast me out to the wicked ones, they had no pity for my soul
R. Crude enemies with terrible eyes, gave me vinegar to drink

[Lectio2]
!Lam 2:13-17
13 Mihez hasonlítsalak, mivel vesselek össze, Jeruzsálem leánya? Ki tudna megvigasztalni, Sionnak szûz leánya? Mert nagy, mint a tenger, a fájdalmad. Ki gyógyíthatna meg?
14 Amit prófétáid jövendöltek neked, az csalárdság volt és balgaság. Soha nem tárták fel vétkedet, hogy indítsanak megtérésre, Hamis látomásokkal hitegettek, becsaptak és félrevezettek.
15 Akiknek erre visz az útjuk, összecsapják a kezüket, amikor meglátnak. Felszisszennek, fejüket csóválják Jeruzsálem leánya miatt: Ezzé lett a szépek szépe, az egész földnek ékessége?
16 Kitárta ellened a száját minden ellenséged. Füttyentenek, fogukat csikorgatják, és ezt mondják: "Felfaltuk! Ez az a nap, amelyre vártunk - megértük, megláttuk."
17 Amit elhatározott, azt végbevitte az Úr, teljesítette szavát, amelyet már rég kimondott. Könyörtelenül lerombolt! Ellenségeid ujjonghatnak fölötted, mert eltöltötte õket erõvel.
r. Jerusalem, Jerusalem, térj meg Uradhoz Istenedhez.

[Responsory2]
R. the veil of the temple was rent
* The earth trembled: the robber from the cross cried:: Remember me O Lord, when you coming to your Kingdon.
V. The rocks were rent, and the graves were opened: and many bodies of the saints that had slept arose,
R. The earth trembled: the robber from the cross cried:: Remember me O Lord, when you coming to your Kingdon.

[Lectio3]
!Lam 3:1-9
1 Olyan ember vagyok, aki átéltem a nyomorúságot haragjának vesszeje alatt.
2 A sötétségbe vitt és vezetett, nem a világosságba.
3 Egyedül ellenem emeli föl a kezét újra meg újra, egész nap.
4 Elsorvasztotta húsomat és bõrömet, összetörte csontjaimat.
5 Körülsáncolt és körülvett engem epével és gyötrelemmel.
6 A sötétségben adott nekem lakást a rég megholtak között.
7 Fallal vett körül, nem mehetek ki, súlyos bilincsbe vert.
8 Ha kiáltok és könyörgök, kizárja imádságomat.
9 Faragott kövekkel zárta el utamat, eltorlaszolta ösvényemet.
10 Mint a lesben álló medve, olyan lett hozzám, vagy mint a rejtekén megbúvó oroszlán.
11 Ösvényemet eltérítette, és összetépett, borzalommá tett.
12 Kifeszítette íját és célba vett, nyilainak célpontjává lettem.
r. Jerusalem, Jerusalem, térj meg Uradhoz Istenedhez.

[Responsory3]
R. I planted thee as a chosen vineyard
* How then art thou turned unto me in bitterness, that crucified me and let Barabbam go?
V. I fenced you in a garden, and picked the stones out of it, and built a tower
R. How then art thou turned unto me in bitterness, that crufified me and let Barabbam go?
&Gloria
R. I planted thee as a chosen vineyard * How then art thou turned unto me in bitterness, that crufified me and let Barabbam go?

[Lectio4]
From the Treatise of St Austin, Bishop (of Hippo,)
!Upon the Psalms (lxiii. 2.)
Thou hast hidden me from the secret counsel of the wicked, from the insurrection of the workers of iniquity. Now let us fix our eyes upon our Head. Many martyrs have. suffered such things as He suffered, but God's hiding of His suffering ser; vants is not so well seen in the Martyrs, as it is in the Captain of the Martyrs. And it is in Him that we best see how it fared with them. He was hidden from the secret counsel of the wicked; hidden by God, being Himself God; hidden, as touching the Manhood, by God the Son, and the very Manhood, Which is taken into God the Son; because He is the Son of man, and He is the Son of; God Son of God, as being in the form of God; Son of man, as having taken upon Him the form of a servant, (Phil. ii. 6, 7,) Whose life no man taketh from Him, but Who layeth it down of Himself. He hath power to lay it down, and He hath power to take it again, (John x. 18.) What then was all that they which hated Him could do? They could kill the Body, but they were not able to kill the Soul. Consider this very earnestly. It had been a small thing for the Lord to preach to the Martyrs by His word, if He had not also nerved them by His example.

[Responsory4]
R. Are ye come out, as against a thief, with swords and staves, for to take Me?
* I sat daily with you, teaching in the Temple, and ye laid no hold on Me; and, now when ye have scourged Me, ye lead Me away to crucify Me!
V. And when they had laid hands on Jesus, and taken Him, He said unto them :
R. I sat daily with you, teaching in the Temple, and ye laid no hold on Me; and now, when ye have scourged Me, ye lead Me away to crucify Me!

[Lectio5]
We know what secret counsel was that of the wicked Jews, and what insurrection was that of the workers of iniquity. Of what iniquity were they the workers? The murder of our Lord Jesus Christ. Many good works, saith He, have I showed you for which of those works go ye about to kill Me? He had borne with all their weaknesses : He had healed all their diseases : He had preached unto them the kingdom of heaven : He had discovered to them their iniquities, that they might rather hate them, than the Physician That came to cure them. And now at last, without gratitude for all the tenderness of His healing love, like men raging in an high delirium, throwing themselves madly on the Physician, Who had come to cure them, they took counsel together how they might kill Him, as if to see if He were a Man and could die, or Something more than a man, and That would not let Himself die. In the Wisdom of Solomon we recognize their words, (ii. 18, 19, 20,) Let us condemn Him with a shameful death Let us examine Him; for, by His own saying, He shall be respected. If He be the Son of God, let Him help Him.

[Responsory5]
R. The Jews crucified Jesus : and there was darkness (over all the land, unto the ninth hour) : and about the ninth hour Jesus cried with a loud voice, (saying) : My God, (My God,) why hast Thou forsaken Me?
* And He bowed His Head, and gave up the Ghost.
V. When Jesus had cried with a loud voice, He said : Father, into thy hands I commend My Spirit.
R. And He bowed His Head, and gave up the Ghost.

[Lectio6]
They whet heir tongue like a sword. The Jews cannot say : We did not murder Christ albeit they gave Him over to Pilate His judge, that they themselves might seem free of His death. For when! Pilate said unto them, Take ye Him: and kill Him, they answered, It; is not lawful for us to put any man to death. They could throw thé blame of their sin upon a human judge : but did they deceive God, the Great Judge? In that which Pilate; did, he was their accomplice, but in comparison with them, he had far the lesser sin. (John xix. 11.) Pilaté strove as far as he could, to deliver Him out of their hands; for the which reason also he scourged Him, (John xix. 1,) and brought Him forth to, them He scourged not the Lord for cruelty's sake, but in the hope that; he might so slake their wild thirst for blood: that, perchance, even they might be touched with compassion, and cease to lust for His death, when they saw What He was after the flag's elation. Even this effort he made.! But when Pilate saw that he could! not prevail, but that rather a tumult was made, (Matth. xxvii. 24,) ye know how that he took water, and washed his hands before the multitude, saying: I am innocent of the i Blood of this Just Person. And yet he delivered Him to be crucified! But if he were guilty who did it against his will, were they innocent; who goaded him on to it? No. Pilate gave sentence against Him. and commanded Him to be crucified. But ye, O ye Jews, ye also are His murderers! Wherewith? With your tongue, whetted like a sword. And when? But when ye cried, Crucify Him! Crucify Him!

[Responsory6]
R. I have given the dearly-beloved o My soul into the hand of her enemies and Mine heritage is become unto Me as a lion in the forest; the enemy crieth out against Me, saying : Assemble yourselves together, hasten to devour Him : they have made My portion a desolate wilderness, and the whole land mourneth unto Me :
* Because there is none found that will know Me, nor do well.
V. There be risen up against me such as breathe out cruelty, and they have not spared my soul.
R. Because there is none found that will know Me, nor do well.
&Gloria
R. I have given the dearly-beloved of My soul into the hand of her enemies, and Mine heritage is become unto Me as a lion in the forest : the enemy crieth out against Me, saying : Assemble yourselves together, hasten to devour Him : they have made My portion a desolate wilderness, and the whole land mourneth unto me : * Because there is none found that will know Me, nor do well.

[Lectio7]
Szent Pál Apostol zsidókhoz irott levelébõl
!Heb 4:11-15
11 Törekedjünk tehát rá, hogy bejussunk nyugalmának ebbe az (országába), nehogy valaki éppúgy elessék, mint elõbb a hitetlenség példáján láttuk.
12 Az Isten szava ugyanis eleven, átható és minden kétélû kardnál élesebb, behatol a lélek és szellem, az íz és a velõ gyökeréig, megítéli a szív gondolatait és érzéseit.
13 Semmilyen teremtett dolog nem marad elõtte rejtve; minden föl van fedve és nyitva van az elõtt, akinek számadással tartozunk.
14 Mivel tehát olyan kiváló fõpapunk van, aki áthatolt az egeken, Jézus, az Isten Fia, legyünk állhatatosak a hitvallásban.
15 Fõpapunk ugyanis nem olyan, hogy ne tudna együttérezni gyöngeségeinkkel, hanem olyan, aki hozzánk hasonlóan mindenben kísértést szenvedett, a bûntõl azonban ment maradt.
16 Járuljunk tehát bizalommal a kegyelem trónjához, hogy irgalmat találjunk és kegyelmet kapjunk, amikor segítségre szorulunk.

[Responsory7]
R.They gave me to the hand of the ungodly, put me among the wicked men, did nor spared my soul
* And they stood like giants against me
V. strangers have risen up against me; and the mighty have sought after my soul
R. And they stood like giants against me

[Lectio8]
!Heb 5:1-7
1 Óvakodjunk ezért attól, hogy közületek bárki úgy vélekedjen, még késlekedhet bemenni nyugalmába, mert még érvényben van az ígéret.
2 Hozzánk éppúgy eljutott az üdvösség örömhíre, mint õhozzájuk; ám nekik nem vált hasznukra a tanítás, mert nem csatlakoztak azokhoz, akik hittel hallgatták.
3 Nyugalma országába ugyanis csak akkor jutunk el, ha hívõk vagyunk. Mert ezt mondta: Megesküdtem hát haragomban, hogy nyugalmamba be nem mennek.
4 A tisztséget magától senki sem vállalhatja, csak akit az Isten meghív, mint Áront.
5 Így Krisztus sem önmagát emelte fõpapi méltóságra, hanem az, aki így szólt hozzá: "A Fiam vagy, ma szültelek."
6 Másutt meg ezt mondja: "Pap vagy mindörökké Melkizedek rendje szerint."
7 Földi életében hangosan kiáltozva, könnyek között imádkozott, s könyörgött ahhoz, aki meg tudta menteni a haláltól, és hódolatáért meghallgatásra talált.

[Responsory8]
R. Jesus were given to the hand of the chief prists and the elders of the nation.
* Peter followed him afar off, that he might see the end.
V. led him to Caiphas the high priest, where the scribes and the ancients were assembled
R. Peter followed him afar off, that he might see the end.

[Lectio9]
!Heb 5:8-14
8 Annak ellenére, hogy õ volt a Fiú, a szenvedésbõl engedelmességet tanult.
9 Mûve befejeztével pedig örök üdvösséget szerzett azoknak, akik engedelmeskednek neki,
10 mert az Isten õt hirdette ki fõpapnak, Melkizedek rendje szerint.
11 Errõl még sok mondanivalónk volna, de nehéz nektek kifejteni, mert közömbösen hallgatjátok.
12 Ha az idõt tekintjük, már tanítóknak kellene lennetek, s mégis arra szorultok, hogy az isteni tanítás elemeire oktassanak benneteket. Tejre van szükségetek, nem szilárd ételre.
13 Aki tejen él, járatlan az igaz tanításban, hiszen még kisgyerek.
14 A tökéletesnek viszont, aki gyakorlattal megfelelõ érzéket szerzett a jó és a rossz megkülönböztetésére, szilárd eledel való.

[Responsory9]
R. My sight is dim from the tears, can not see who would comfort me; see all ye people
* If there be any sorrow like to my sorrow
V. O all ye that pass by the way, attend, and see
R. If there be any sorrow like to my sorrow
&Gloria
R. My sight is dim from the tears, can not see who would comfort me; see all ye people * If there be any sorrow like to my sorrow

[Ant Laudes]
God spared not His Own Son * but delivered Him up for us all
My spirit is overwhelmed within me * my heart within me is troubled
One thief said unto the other * We indeed receive the due reward of our deeds, but what hath this man done? Lord, remember me, when thou comest into thy kingdom
Lord, when my soul is troubled * thou wilt remember mercy
Lord, remember me * when thou comest into thy kingdom
Lord, remember me * when thou shalt come into thy kingdom

[Versum 2]
V. He hath made me to dwell in darkness
R. As those that have been dead of old

[Ant 2]
And they put over * his head his cause written: This is Jesus the king of the Jews.

[Oratio]
v. Christ for our sake humbled himself, becoming obedient unto death, even to the death of the cross
!secreto
$Pater noster
!lower voice
&psalm(50)
_
We beseech thee, O Lord, look upon thy family, for whom our Lord Jesus Christ did not hesitated to give himself to the hand of the men who hated him and abide himself to the torments of the cross
!Finish silently
$Qui tecum

[Oratio Matutinum]
Look down, we beseech thee, O Lord, on this thy family, for which our Lord Jesus Christ did not hesitate to be delivered up into the hands of wicked men, and to suffer the torment of the Cross.
!Finish silently
$Qui tecum

[Ant Vespera]
I will take the chalice of salvation; * and I will call upon the name of the Lord.;;115
With them * that hated peace I was peaceable: when I spoke to them they fought against me without cause.;;119
From unjust men deliver me, O Lord.;;139
Keep me * from the snare, which they have laid for me, and from the stumblingblocks of them that work iniquity.;;140
I looked * on my right hand, and beheld, and there was no one that would know me.;;141

[Versum 3]
V. He hath made me to dwell in darkness
R. As those that have been dead of old.

[Ant 3]
When he had taken the vinegar * said: It is consummated. And bowing his head, he gave up the ghost.

[Special Completorium]
!Special Completorium
_
$Confiteor
$Misereatur
$Indulgentiam

&psalm(4)

&psalm(90)

&psalm(133)

&psalm(233)

v. Christ for our sake humbled himself, becoming obedient unto death, even to the death of the cross
!secreto
$Pater noster
!lower voice
&psalm(50)
_
Look down, we beseech thee, O Lord, on this thy family, for which our Lord Jesus Christ did not hesitate to be delivered up into the hands of wicked men, and to suffer the torment of the Cross.
$Qui tecum
