[Rank]
S. Cajetani Confessoris;;Duplex;;3;;vide C5

[Rule]
vide C5;
9 lectiones

[Ant 1]
Seek ye first the kingdom of God * and His righteousness, and all these things shall be added unto you.

[Oratio]
O God, who didst give grace unto thy blessed confessor Cajetan to order his life on the pattern of thine Apostles, grant unto us through his prayers, and after his ensample ever to put all our trust in thee, and to seek only heavenly things.
$Per Dominum.

[Commemoratio 2]
!Commemoration of St. Donatus, Bishop and Martyr
@Commune/C2:Oratio proper
$Oremus.
O God, Who art thyself the glory of thy priests, grant unto us, we beseech thee, to feel the help of thine holy martyr and bishop Donatus, whose Feast we are keeping.
$Per Dominum

[Lectio4]
Cajetan was born at Vicenza, (in the year 1480,) of the noble family of the lords of Tiene, and was forthwith dedicated by his mother to the Virgin Mother of God. From his childhood such wonderful innocence shone in him that all called him the Saint. He took the degree of Doctor in Civil and Canon Law at Padua, and afterwards went to Rome, where Julius II. gave him a place among the Prelates. Having taken Priest's Orders, he became so full of the fire of the love of God, that he left the Court, that he might be free to work entirely for God. He founded hospitals at his own expense, and nursed the sick, even such as were suffering from the plague, with his own hands. He laboured with such constant earnestness for the salvation of his neighbours that he got the name of the Hunter of souls.

[Lectio5]
From a desire to restore the corrupted discipline of the clergy to the mould of the Apostolic life, he founded, (in 1524,) a Congregation of Clerks Regular, who should give up all care of earthly things, neither keeping any income, nor begging the needful things of life from the faithful, but living only on such alms as might be given them unasked. For this end, and with the approval of Clement VII., Cajetan himself, together with John Peter Carafa, Archbishop of Chieti, (afterwards Pope Paul IV.), and two other men of eminent godliness, took solemn vows at the High Altar of St Peter's Church on the Vatican. When the city of Rome was sacked by the troops (of the Constable de Bourbon, in 1527,) Cajetan was most cruelly illused to make him reveal his wealth, which had long before been laid up for him in heaven by the hands of the poor, and he endured with unconquered patience stripes, torture, and imprisonment. He held on bravely in the way of life he had taken up, trusting altogether to the Providence of God, Whose unfailing care of him was sometimes attested by miracles.

[Lectio6]
He was a great advancer of care in the worship of God, of splendour in the house of God, of exactness in the holy ceremonies, and of the often receiving of the most holy Eucharist. The hideous forms and dark convolutions of heresy he more than once unmasked and abolished. He would remain in prayer with abundance of tears as much as eight hours at a time. He was often thrown into trances, and was celebrated for the gift of prophecy. One Christmas night at Rome, when he was praying before the Lord's manger, he was deemed worthy that the Mother of God should lay the Child Jesus in his arms. He sometimes spent the whole night in whipping himself, nor could he ever be persuaded to soften the hardness of his life, but witnessed that he was fain to die in sackcloth and ashes. In the end he fell ill with grief at the offence against God, which the people of Naples committed by rebelling (against the establishment of the Inquisition.) Refreshed by a vision from heaven, he departed thither (on the 7th day of August, 1547.) His body lieth at Naples in the Church of St Paul, where it is held in great reverence. Pope Clement X., finding him to have been illustrious for miracles, both during his life and after his death, enrolled his name among those of the Saints.

[Lectio7]
From the Holy Gospel according to Matthew
!Matt 6:24-33
At that time: Jesus said unto His disciples: No man can serve two masters. And so on.
_
Homily by St Austin, Bishop of Hippo.
!Bk. ii. on the Lord's Sermon on the Mount, ch. xiv.
No man can serve two masters, and this is further explained for either he will hate the one, and love the other; or else he will hold to the one, and despise~
the other. These words we ought carefully to weigh, for the Lord showeth straightway who be the two masters whom we have choice of: Ye cannot serve God and Mammon. Mammon is a term which the Hebrews are said to use for riches. It is also a Carthaginian word for the Punic for gain is mammon. He which serveth mammon, serveth that evil one who hath perversely chosen to be lord of these earthly things, and is called by the Lord the prince of this world. (John xiv. 30.) Of these two masters, either a man will hate the one and love the other,~
that is God or he will hold to the one and despise the other. He which serveth mammon holdeth to an hard and destroying master, for he is led captive by his lust, and sold a slave to the devil, and him loveth no man is there any man that loveth the devil And yet there be that hold to him.

[Lectio8]
Therefore, I say unto you, Take no thought for your life, what ye shall eat, or what ye shall drink; nor yet for your body, what ye shall put on lest, albeit such things are not idle, but needful to be sought after, yet the seeking for things even needful should divide the heart and our intention should be corrupted when we do something as it were mercifully that is, lest, when we would seem to be seeking another's good, it should be profit to ourselves, rather than benefit to him, that we seek and therefore we seem not to ourselves to sin, because we would seek things not idle, but needful.

[Lectio93]
!Commemoration of St. Donatus, Bishop and Martyr
Donatus was the child of a father and mother who had both been slain for Jesus Christ's sake. He fled with the monk Hilarinus to Arezzo in Tuscany, of which city he afterwards became Bishop. There the Praefect Quadratian, during the persecution under Julian, commanded both Hilarinus and Donatus to worship idols, and when they both refused to commit such abominable iniquity, Hilarinus was beaten with clubs before the eyes of Quadratian, until he gave up the ghost. Donatus also was savagely tortured, and slain with the sword. The Christians buried their bodies honourably hard by the city.
&teDeum

[Ant 2]
Take no thought, saying What shall we eat? * or, What shall we drink For your Father knoweth what things ye have need of.

[Ant 3]
Seek ye first the kingdom of God * and His righteousness, and all these things shall be added unto you.

[Lectio94]
Cajetan was born at Vicenza of the noble family of Tiene, and was at once dedicated by his mother to the Virgin Mother of God. He won his degree in civil and canon law at Padua and went to Rome, where he was appointed a prelate by Julius II and later ordained to the priesthood. He founded hospitals with his own money, and with his own hands served the sick, even those stricken with contagious diseases. He worked so zealously for the salvation of others that he came to be called Hunter of souls. The discipline of the clergy had fallen to a low state; with the aim of restoring it after the pattern of the apostolic life, Cajetan founded the Order of Clerks Regular. They were to give up all involvement in worldly affairs; they were not to possess any revenues or to beg for their subsistence from the faithful, but to live only on alms spontaneously offered. And so, with the approval of Clement VII, Cajetan took solemn vows at the High Altar of the Vatican Basilica, together with John Peter Carafa, Bishop of Chieti and afterwards Paul IV, and two other men of outstandingly holy lives. He was a great advancer of care in the worship of God, of splendour in the house of God, of exactness in the holy ceremonies, and of the frequent reception of the most holy Eucharist. Full of merits, he went to his heavenly reward at Naples, and there his body is highly venerated in the Church of St. Paul.
&teDeum
