[Rank]
S. Joannis Vianney Confessoris;;Duplex;;3;;vide C5

[Rule]
vide C5;mtv
9 lectiones

[Oratio]
Almighty and merciful God, who didst make St John Mary to be wonderful in pastoral zeal and unchanging love for prayer and penance, grant we beseech thee, that by his example and intercession we may be able to gain the souls of our brethren in Christ, and with them to arrive at the glory of eternity
$Per eumdem

[Commemoratio 1]
!Commemoratio S. Romanae Maryris
@Commune/C2:Oratio proper
$Oremus
Graciously hear us, we beseech thee, O Almighty God, and, at the petition of thy blessed Martyr, Romanus be mercifully pleased to deliver us from all things which may hurt our bodies, and from all evil thoughts which may defile our souls.
$Per Dominum

[Lectio Vigilia]
!Commemoratio Vigilia St Laurentii
@Sancti/08-09t:Lectio1             

[Lectio4]
John Mary Vianney, born of pious peasants in the village of Dardilly in the diocese of Lyons, gave many signs of holiness from his infancy.  When, at the age of eight, he was taking care of the sheep, he would sometimes by word and example instruct little boys, kneeling before a statue of the Mother of God, in the use of the Rosary ; and at other times, entrusting the flock to his sister or to another child, he was wont to seek out a more retired spot, that he might more readily devote himself to prayer before an image of the Virgin.  Having a very great love for the poor, he would lead them in crowds to his father's house, and he took a delight in aiding them in every way.  That he might be initiated into letters, he was sent to the parish priest of the village of Ecully ; but as he was very slow to understand, he encountered almost unsurmountable difficulties in his studies.  Fasting and praying, he entreated the divine assistance, and, with a view to begging for a facility in learning, he approached the tomb of St. Francis Regis, earnestly beseeching him for that gift.  Having most laboriously passed through the course of theology, he was found to be sufficiently suitable to receive holy orders.

[Lectio5]
In the village of Ecully, under the guidance of the parish priest, whose assistant he had been appointed, he strove with all his strength to attain to the higher degrees of pastoral perfection.  After three years had gone by, he was sent, like an Angel from heaven, to the small village of Ars, which not so long after was included in the diocese of Belley, and in a most brilliant manner he entirely renewed the condition of his neglected and forsaken parish.  Continually engaged for many hours daily in hearing confessions and in giving spiritual direction, he introduced the frequent reception of the Eucharist, and organized pious sodalities : and in a remarkable manner he inspired into souls a tender devotion to the Immaculate Virgin.  And, deeming that it is the duty of the pastor to expiate the sins of the flock accredited to him, he spared neither prayers, nor vigils, nor mortifications and continual fastings.  Since Satan could not endure such great virtues in this man of God, he assailed him, first with mere annoyances, and afterwards in open combat; but John Mary patiently endured the most malevolent injuries.

[Lectio6]
He was very often asked by the neighbouring priests to labour for the salvation of souls after the manner of the Missionaries, either by preaching sermons, or by hearing confessions, and he was always at hand in every case.  Burning with zeal for the glory of God, he brought it about, that the pious exercises of Missions were established in more than an hundred parishes arranged in a continuous and permanent series.  Meanwhile, as God was rendering his servant famous by miracles and by graces, there began that celebrated pilgrimage, in which, throughout a period of twenty years, nearly one hundred thousand persons of every class flocked to Ars, not only from France and from Europe, but even from the distant regions of America.  Worn out by labours rather than by old age, having foretold the day of his death, he went to rest in the embrace of the Lord, on the 4th day of August, in the year 1859, and of his age the seventy-third.  After he became illustrious for many miracles, Pius X added him to the number of the Blessed , and Pius XI, in the holy year numbered him with the Saints in heaven and extended his feast to the universal Church, and on the fiftieth anniversary of his own priesthood, appointed him the heavenly patron of all parish priests.

[Lectio93]
!For the Vigil of S. Laurence Martyr
Continuation of the Holy Gospel according to Matthew
!Matt 16:24-27
At that time Jesus said unto His disciples If any man will come after Me, let him deny himself, and take up his cross, and follow Me. And so on.
_
Homily by Pope St Gregory (the Great.)
!32nd on the Gospels
Our Lord and Redeemer came into the world a new Man, and gave the world new commandments. For against the ways of our old life, brought and bred up in sin, He set the contrast of His new life. It was the old way, according to the knowledge of the carnal man, for every man to keep his own goods, and, if he were able to do it, to take his neighbour's goods also, and, if he were not able to take them, at least to lust after them. But the Heavenly Physician hath medicines wherewith to meet all the diseases of sin. For, even, as by the art of the physician, things hot are healed by things cold, and things cold by things hot, so doth our Lord set against sin holiness, ordaining for the lecherous purity, for the miserly munificence, for the hot-tempered meekness, and for the proud lowliness.

[Commemoratio 2]
!Commemoratio S. Romanae Maryris
@Commune/C2:Oratio proper
Graciously hear us, we beseech thee, O Almighty God, and, at the petition of thy blessed Martyr, Romanus be mercifully pleased to deliver us from all things which may hurt our bodies, and from all evil thoughts which may defile our souls.
$Per Dominum

[Oratio Vigilia]
!Commemoratio Vigiliae S. Laurentii Martyris
Attend, O Lord, to Our supplications, and by the intercession of Thy blessed martyr, Lawrence, whose feast we anticipate, graciously bestow upon us Thy everlasting mercy.
$Per Dominum

[Lectio94]
John Mary Vianney was born of devout farming-people in the village of Dardilly in the diocese of Lyons, and gave many indications of his future sanctity. As an eight-year-old boy, keeping sheep, he would lead the other children to kneel before the image of the Mother of God, teaching them the Rosary by word and example; and he loved to work in the fields and meditate on divine things. He was a great lover of the poor and took delight in helping them in every way. He was slow to learn; but, after imploring God's help and working hard to complete his course in theology, he was judged fit to be ordained. Receiving an appointment as pastor, he made spiritual flowers bloom again in a parish that had been nothing but a dried-up wasteland. Busy every day hearing confessions and giving spiritual counsel, he bore patiently the most horrible attacks of Satan. He established the practice of making missions in more than an hundred parishes. The faithful came flocking to his parish, even from distant places, in a holy desire to see him; but he did not share their high opinion of him at all, and more than once he tried to slip away. Worn out by his labours rather than by old age, he rested in the Lord at the age of seventy-three on the day he had foretold, the 4th of August, 1859. Famous for many miracles, he was enrolled among the Blessed by Pius X and among the Saints by Pius XI who, on the fiftieth anniversary of his own priesthood, appointed him the heavenly patron of all parish priests.
&teDeum
