Upon the 8th day of January, were born into the better life 
_
At Beauvais, in Gaul, the holy martyrs Lucian the Priest (first Bishop of that see,) Maximian, and Julian. 
Maximian and Julian were slain by the persecutors with the sword, but the blessed Lucian, who had come into Gaul with holy Denis, did not receive the like treatment until after great suffering, the which notwithstanding, he feared not to confess aloud the name of Christ. (He died in the year 312.) 
Likewise the holy martyr Eugenian (Bishop of Autun.) In Lybia, the holy martyrs Theophilus the Deacon, and Helladius, who were first torn and mangled with sharp potsherds, and then cast into the fire, and so gave up their souls to God. 
At Venice, (in the year 1455,) the blessed Confessor Lawrence de' Giustiniani, the first Patriarch of that city he was filled very abundantly with learning and gifts of divine wisdom from on high, and Alexander VIII. enrolled his name among those of the saints. We keep his festival upon the fifth day of September. 
At Hierapolis, in Asia, holy Apollinaris, Bishop (of that see,) who was eminent for holiness and learning, in the time of the Emperor Marcus Antoninus Verus. 
At Naples, in Campania, holy Severinus, Bishop (of that see,) brother of the blessed martyr Victorinus he wrought many good works, and fell asleep full of holiness, (in the year 540.) 
At Pavia, the holy Confessor Maximus, Bishop (of that see, successor to St Epiphanius. He took part in the 4th and 6th Councils of Rome, held by Pope Symmachus against the Antipope Lawrence at the beginning of the sixth century.) 
At Ratisbon, holy Bishop Erhard. 
At Metz, holy Patient, Bishop (of that see, in the second century.) 
On the same day, (in the year 482,) in Bavaria, the holy Abbat Severinus, who spread the Gospel among that people, and is called the Apostle of the (Austrians and) Bavarians. His body was, by the will of God, brought to Monte - feltro, near Naples, and thence it hath been since taken to the monastery of St Severino. 
