[Rank]
Feria Tertia infra Hebdomadam I post Octavam Pentecostes;;Feria;;1
										
[Lectio1]
Lesson from the first book of Samuel
!1 Sam 1:12-18
12 And it came to pass, as she multiplied prayers before the Lord, that Heli observed her mouth.
13 Now Anna spoke in her heart, and only her lips moved, but her voice was not heard at all. Heli therefore thought her to be drunk,
14 And said to her: How long wilt thou, be drunk? digest a little the wine, of which thou hast taken too much.
15 Anna answering, said: Not so, my lord: for I am an exceeding unhappy woman, and have drunk neither wine nor any strong drink, but I have poured out my soul before the Lord.
16 Count not thy handmaid for one of the daughters of Belial: for out of the abundance of my sorrow and grief have I spoken till now.
17 Then Heli said to her: Go in peace: and the God of Israel grant thee thy petition, which thou hast asked of him.
18 And she said: Would to God thy handmaid may find grace in thy eyes.

[Responsory1]
R. Saul hath slain his thousands, and David his ten thousands.
* Because the hand of the Lord was with him, he smote the Philistine, and took away the reproach from Israel.
V. Is not this David? Did they not sing one to another of him in dances, saying: Saul hath slain his thousands, and David his ten thousands?
R. Because the hand of the Lord was with him, he smote the Philistine, and took away the reproach from Israel.

[Lectio2]
!1 Sam 1:18-22
18 So the woman went on her way, and ate, and her countenance was no more changed.
19 And they rose in the morning, and worshipped before the Lord: and they returned, and came into their house at Ramatha. And Elcana knew Anna his wife: and the Lord remembered her.
20 And it came to pass when the time was come about, Anna conceived and bore a son, and called his name Samuel: because she had asked him of the Lord.
21 And Elcana her husband went up, and all his house, to offer to the Lord the solemn sacrifice, and his vow.
22 But Anna went not up: for she said to her husband: I will not go till the child be weaned, and till I may carry him, that he may appear before the Lord, and may abide always there.

[Responsory2]
R. Ye mountains of Gilboa, let there be no dew, neither let there be rain upon you
* For there are the mighty of Israel fallen
V. All ye mountains that stand round about, the Lord look upon you but let Him pass by Gilboa
R. For there are the mighty of Israel fallen

[Lectio3]
!1 Sam 1:23-28
23 And Elcana her husband said to her: Do what seemeth good to thee, and stay till thou wean him: and I pray that the Lord may fulfill his word. So the woman stayed at home, and gave her son suck, till she weaned him.
24 And after she had weaned him, she carried him with her, with three calves, and three bushels of flour, and a bottle of wine, and she brought him to the house of the Lord in Silo. Now the child was as yet very young:
25 And they immolated a calf, and offered the child to Heli.
26 And Anna said: I beseech thee, my lord, as thy soul liveth, my lord: I am that woman who stood before thee here praying to the Lord.
27 For this child did I pray, and the Lord hath granted me my petition, which I asked of him.
28 Therefore I also have lent him to the Lord all the days of his life, he shall be lent to the Lord. And they adored the Lord there.

[Responsory3]
R. Thus saith the Lord: I took thee out of thy father's house, and appointed thee to be ruler over My people, over Israel.
* And I was with thee whithersoever thou wentest, to establish thy kingdom for ever.
V. And I have made thee a great name, like unto the name of the great men that are in the earth and have caused thee to rest from all thine enemies.
R. And I was with thee whithersoever thou wentest, to establish thy kingdom for ever.
&Gloria
R. And I was with thee whithersoever thou wentest, to establish thy kingdom for ever.

[Oratio]
O God, the Strength of all them that put their trust in thee, mercifully accept our prayers, and because through the weakness of our mortal nature we can do no good thing without thee, grant us the help of thy grace, that in keeping of thy commandments we may please thee, both in will and deed.
$Per Dominum