[Officium]
pátku v druhém týdnu Adventu

[Lectio1]
Lesson from the book of Isaias
!Isa 24:1-3
1 Behold the Lord shall lay waste the earth, and shall strip it, and shall afflict the face thereof, and scatter abroad the inhabitants thereof.
2 And it shall be as with the people, so with the priest: and as with the servant, so with his master: as with the handmaid, so with her mistress: as with the buyer, so with the seller: as with the lender, so with the borrower: as with him that calleth for his money, so with him that oweth.
3 With desolation shall the earth be laid waste, and it shall be utterly spoiled: for the Lord hath spoken this word.

[Lectio2]
!Isa 24:4-6
4 The earth mourned, and faded away, and is weakened: the world faded away, the height of the people of the earth is weakened.
5 And the earth is infected by the inhabitants thereof: because they have transgressed the laws, they have changed the ordinance, they have broken the everlasting covenant.
6 Therefore shall a curse devour the earth, and the inhabitants thereof shall sin: and therefore they that dwell therein shall be mad, and few men shall be left.

[Lectio3]
!Isa 24:7-16
7 The vintage hath mourned, the vine hath languished away, all the merryhearted have sighed.
8 The mirth of timbrels hath ceased, the noise of them that rejoice is ended, the melody of the harp is silent.
9 They shall not drink wine with a song: the drink shall be bitter to them that drink it.
10 The city of vanity is broken down, every house is shut up, no man cometh in.
11 There shall be a crying for wine in the streets: all mirth is forsaken: the joy of the earth is gone away.
12 Desolation is left in the city, and calamity shall oppress the gates.
13 For it shall be thus in the midst of the earth, in the midst of the people, as if a few olives, that remain, should be shaken out of the olive tree: or grapes, when the vintage is ended.
14 These shall lift up their voice, and shall give praise: when the Lord shall be glorified, they shall make a joyful noise from the sea.
15 Therefore glorify ye the Lord in instruction: the name of the Lord God of Israel in the islands of the sea.
16 From the ends of the earth we have heard praises, the glory of the Just one.

[Ant 2]
Řekněte: Malověrní, * buďte silní; hle, Pán Bůh náš přijde.

[Ant 2] (rubrica cisterciensis)
Zpívejte Pánu * novou píseň; jeho chvála zazní ze všech končin země.

[Ant 3]
Zpívejte Pánu * novou píseň; jeho chvála zazní ze všech končin země.

[Ant 3] (rubrica cisterciensis)
Řekněte: Malověrní, * buďte silní; hle, Pán Bůh náš přijde.
