[Rank]
In Ascensione Domini;;Duplex I classis cum Octava Privilegiata III;;7

[Rank1960]
In Ascensione Domini;;Duplex I classis;;7

[Rule]
Psalmi Dominica
Antiphonas horas
9 Lectiones
Duplex
Doxology=Asc
Psalm5 vespera=116
No Commemoration

[Ant Vespera]
Muži Galilejští, * proč hledíte k nebi? Tento Ježíš, který od vás byl vzat do nebe, tak zase přijde, Alleluja.
A když ho viděli * vystupovat do nebe, řekli: Alleluja.
Pozdvihnul ruce * a požehnal jim a byl vynesen do nebe, Alleluja.
Vyvyšte Krále králů * a zpívejte chvalozpěv Bohu, Alleluja.
Za jejich pohledu * byl vyzdvižen a oblak ho přijal do nebe, Alleluja.

[Ant Vespera] (rubrica cisterciensis)
Odcházím * připravit vám místo, a opět k vám přijdu, alleluja, a zaraduje se vaše srdce, alleluja, alleluja.
Neopouštím vás * jako sirotky, alleluja: odcházím, ale opět k vám přijdu, alleluja, a zaraduje se vaše srdce, alleluja.
Pokoj svůj vám dávám, * alleluja: pokoj vám zanechávám, alleluja.
Muži galilejští, * pročpak hledíte k nebi? tento Ježíš, který byl od vás vzat do nebe, takto opět přijde, alleluja.
Takto opět přijde, * jak jste jej viděli odcházet do nebe, alleluja.

[Responsory Vespera 1]
Responsorium. Veškerá krása Páně vyzdvižena byla nad hvězdy: nádhera jeho do nebeských oblaků: * A jeho jméno zůstane navěky, alleluja.
V. Z nejvyššího nebe vychází, a běží kolem až na jeho konec. /:(Ps 18,6):/
R. A jeho jméno zůstane navěky, alleluja.

[HymnusM Vespera]
@:Hymnus Vespera

[Hymnus Vespera]
v. Výkupné naše, Ježíši,
lásko a tužbo nejčistší,
tys Tvůrce věcí stvořených
a člověk věků posledních.
_
Jaký tě musil soucit vést,
žes naše hříchy sám chtěl nést,
že sám ses kruté smrti vzdal,
bys kletbu smrti z lidí sňal.
_
Pronikáš v žalář pekelný,
propouštíš z něj své zajatce.
Vítězi, slávou oděný,
po pravici Otce trůníš.
_
Kéž donutí tě soucit týž,
že rány vin v nás zacelíš,
nás podle slibu ušetříš
a vlídnou tváří potěšíš.
_
Ty budiž naší radostí,
odměnou ve tvé věčnosti,
kéž naše sláva veškerá
jen z tebe věčně vyvěrá.
Amen.

[Versum 1]
V. Bůh vystupuje v jásotu, alleluja.
R. A Pán za zvuku trouby, alleluja.

[Ant 1]
Otče, * zjevným jsem učinil tvé jméno lidem, které jsi mi dal: nyní však za ně prosím, ne za svět, neboť jdu k tobě, alleluja.

[Oratio]
Popřej, prosíme, všemohoucí Bože, abychom my, jež věříme, že dnešního dne tvůj Jednorozený, Vykupitel náš, na nebesa vystoupil, sami také myslí v nebesích dleli. 
$Per eumdem

[Invit]
Alleluia. The Lord Christ hath ascended up into heaven. * O come let us worship Him. Alleluia.

[Hymnus Matutinum]
v. Eternal Monarch, King most high,
Whose blood hath brought redemption nigh,
By whom the death of death was wrought,
And conquering grace's battle fought:
_
Ascending by the starry road,
This day thou wentest home to God,
By heaven to power unending called,
And by no human hand installed.
_
That so, in nature's triple frame,
Each heavenly and each earthly name,
And things in hell's abyss abhorred,
May bend the knee and own him Lord.
_
Yea, angels tremble when they see
How changed is our humanity;
That flesh hath purged what flesh had stained,
And God, the flesh of God, hath reigned.
_
Be thou our joy, O mighty Lord,
As thou wilt be our great reward;
Earth's joys to thee are nothing worth,
Thou joy and crown of heaven and earth.
_
To thee we therefore humbly pray
That thou wouldst purge our sins away,
And draw our hearts by cords of grace
To thy celestial dwelling-place.
_
So when the judgement day shall come,
And all must rise to meet their doom,
Thou wilt remit the debts we owe,
And our lost crowns again bestow.
_
All glory, Lord, to thee we pay,
Ascending o'er the stars today;
All glory, as is ever meet,
To Father and to Paraclete.
Amen.

[Ant Matutinum]
Thy magnificence is elevated * above the heavens, O God, alleluia.;;8
The Lord is in His holy Temple, * the Lord's throne is in heaven, alleluia.;;10
His going out is from the end of heaven, * and his circuit even to the end thereof, alleluia.;;18
V. God is ascended with jubilee, alleluia.
R. And the Lord with the sound of trumpet, alleluia.
Be thou exalted, O Lord, * in thy own strength: we will sing and praise, alleluia.;;20
I will extol thee, * O Lord, for thou hast upheld me, alleluia.;;29
God is ascended * with jubilee, and the Lord with the sound of trumpet, alleluia.;;46
V. When Christ ascended up on high, alleluia.
R. He led captivity captive, alleluia.
He is exalted exceedingly, * alleluia: above all gods, alleluia.;;96
The Lord in Sion, * alleluia: is great and high, alleluia.;;98
The Lord in heaven, * alleluia: hath prepared his throne, alleluia.;;102
V. I ascend to my Father and to your Father, alleluia.
R. To my God and your God, alleluia.

[Nocturn 1 Versum]
@:Versum 1

[Nocturn 2 Versum]
V. Když Kristus vystoupil do vysokosti, alleluja.
R. Vysvobodil zajatce, alleluja.

[Nocturn 3 Versum]
V. Vystupuji k Otci svému i Otci vašemu, alleluja.
R. Bohu svému i Bohu vašemu, allelúia.

[Lectio1]
Lesson from the Acts of the Apostles
!Acts 1:1-5
1 The former treatise I made, O Theophilus, of all things which Jesus began to do and to teach,
2 Until the day on which, giving commandments by the Holy Ghost to the apostles whom he had chosen, he was taken up.
3 To whom also he showed himself alive after his passion, by many proofs, for forty days appearing to them, and speaking of the kingdom of God.
4 And eating together with them, he commanded them, that they should not depart from Jerusalem, but should wait for the promise of the Father, which you have heard (saith he) by my mouth.
5 For John indeed baptized with water, but you shall be baptized with the Holy Ghost, not many days hence.

[Responsory1]
R. Being seen of them forty days after that He had suffered, and speaking of the kingdom of God. Alleluia.
* And while they beheld, He was taken up, and a cloud received Him out of their sight. Alleluia.
V. And, eating together with them, He commanded them that they should not depart from Jerusalem, but wait for the Promise of the Father.
R. And while they beheld, He was taken up, and a cloud received Him out of their sight. Alleluia.

[Lectio2]
!Acts 1:6-9
6 They therefore who were come together, asked him, saying: Lord, wilt thou at this time restore again the kingdom to Israel?
7 But he said to them: It is not for you to know the times or moments, which the Father hath put in his own power:
8 But you shall receive the power of the Holy Ghost coming upon you, and you shall be witnesses unto me in Jerusalem, and in all Judea, and Samaria, and even to the uttermost part of the earth.
9 And when he had said these things, while they looked on, he was raised up: and a cloud received him out of their sight.

[Responsory2]
R. The Lord hath set His beauty above the stars;
* His loveliness is in the clouds of heaven, and His Name endureth for ever. Alleluia.
V. His going forth is from the end of the heaven, and His circuit unto the ends of it.
R. His loveliness is in the clouds of heaven, and His Name endureth for ever. Alleluia.

[Lectio3]
!Acts 1:10-14
10 And while they were beholding him going up to heaven, behold two men stood by them in white garments.
11 Who also said: Ye men of Galilee, why stand you looking up to heaven? This Jesus who is taken up from you into heaven, shall so come, as you have seen him going into heaven.
12 Then they returned to Jerusalem from the mount that is called Olivet, which is nigh Jerusalem, within a sabbath day's journey.
13 And when they were come in, they went up into an upper room, where abode Peter and John, James and Andrew, Philip and Thomas, Bartholomew and Matthew, James of Alpheus, and Simon Zelotes, and Jude the brother of James.
14 All these were persevering with one mind in prayer with the women, and Mary the mother of Jesus, and with his brethren.

[Responsory3]
R. Be Thou exalted, O Lord. Alleluia.
* In thine Own strength. Alleluia.
V. O God, Thou hast set thy glory above the heavens.
R. In thine Own strength. Alleluia.
&Gloria
R. In thine Own strength. Alleluia.

[Lectio4]
From the Sermons of Pope St. Leo the Great
!1st on the Lords Ascension
After the blessed and glorious Resurrection of our Lord Jesus Christ, wherein the Divine Power raised up in three days the true Temple of God Which the iniquity of the Jews had destroyed (John ii. 19,) God was pleased to ordain, by His Most Sacred Will, and in His Providence for our instruction and the profit of our souls, a season of forty days which season, dearly beloved brethren, doth end on this day. During that season the bodily Presence of the Lord still lingered on earth, that the reality of the fact of His having risen again from the dead might be armed with all needful proofs. The death of Christ had troubled the hearts of many of His disciples their thoughts were sad when they remembered His agony upon the Cross, His giving up of the Ghost, and the laying in the grave of His lifeless Body, and a sort of hesitation had begun to weigh on them.

[Responsory4]
R. My time is come that I should return unto Him That sent Me, saith the Lord. Be not sorrowful, neither let your heart be troubled.
* I pray the Father for you, that He may keep you. Alleluia, Alleluia.
V. If I go not away, the Comforter will not come unto you; where I am ascended, I will send Him unto you.
R. I pray the Father for you, that He may keep you. Alleluia, Alleluia.

[Lectio5]
Hence the most blessed Apostles and all the disciples, who had been fearful at the finishing on the Cross, and doubtful of the trustworthiness of the rising again, were so strengthened by the clear demonstration of the fact, that, when they saw the Lord going up into the height of heaven, they sorrowed not, nay they were even filled with great joy And, in all verity, it was a great an unspeakable cause for joy to see the Manhood, in the presence of that the multitude of believers, exalted above all creatures even heavenly, rising above the ranks of the angelic armies and speeding Its glorious way where the most noble of the Archangels lie far behind, to rest no lower than that place where high above all principality and power, It taketh Its seat at the right hand of the Eternal Father, Sharer of His throne, and Partaker of His glory, and still of the very man's nature which the Son hath taken upon Him.

[Responsory5]
R. Let not your heart be troubled; I go unto the Father, and when I am taken from you, I will send unto you, alleluia,
* The Spirit of truth, and your heart shall rejoice. Alleluia.
V. I will pray the Father, and He shall give you another Comforter.
R. The Spirit of truth, and your heart shall rejoice. Alleluia.

[Lectio6]
Therefore, dearly beloved brethren, let us also rejoice with worthy joy, for the Ascension of Christ is exaltation for us, and whither the glory of the Head of the Church is passed in, thither is the hope of the body of the Church called on to follow. Let us rejoice with exceeding great joy, and give God glad thanks. This day is not only the possession of Paradise made sure unto us, but in the Person of our Head we are actually begun to enter into the heavenly mansions above. Through the unspeakable goodness of Christ we have gained more than ever we lost by the envy of the devil. We, whom our~
venomous enemy thrust from our first happy home, we, being made of one body with the Son of God, have by Him been given a place at the right hand of the Father with Whom He liveth and reigneth, in the unity of the Holy Ghost, one God, world without end. Amen.

[Responsory6]
R. When Christ ascended up on high, He led captivity captive,
* He gave gifts unto men. Alleluia, Alleluia, Alleluia.
V. God is gone up with a shout, and the Lord with the sound of a trumpet.
R. He gave gifts unto men. Alleluia, Alleluia, Alleluia.
&Gloria
R. He gave gifts unto men. Alleluia, Alleluia, Alleluia.

[Lectio7]
From the Holy Gospel according to Mark
!Mark 16:14-20
At that time, Jesus appeared unto the eleven disciples as they sat at meat, and upbraided them with their unbelief and hardness of heart, because they believed not them which had seen Him after He was risen. And so on.
_
Homily by Pope St. Gregory the Great
!29th on the Gospels
I may be allowed to say that the disciples' slowness to believe that the Lord had indeed risen from the dead, was not so much their weakness as our strength. In consequence of their doubts, the fact of the Resurrection was demonstrated by many infallible proofs. These proofs we read and acknowledge. What then assureth our faith, if not their doubt? For my part, I put my trust in Thomas, who doubted long, much more than in Mary Magdalene, who believed at once. Through his doubting, he came actually to handle the holes of the Wounds, and thereby closed up any wound of doubt in our hearts.

[Responsory7]
R. I will pray the Father, and He shall give you another Comforter,
* That He may abide with you for ever, even the Spirit of truth. Alleluia.
V. For if I go not away, the Comforter will not come unto you; but if I depart, I will send Him unto you.
R. That He may abide with you for ever, even the Spirit of truth. Alleluia.

[Lectio8]
Now confirm to our minds the trustworthiness of the fact that our Lord did indeed rise again from the dead, it is well for us to remark one of the statements of Luke (Acts i. 4.) "Eating together with them, He commanded them that they should not (1 John xiv. 16, 17 xvi. 7.) depart from Jerusalem and a little afterward: "While they beheld, He was taken up, and a cloud received Him out of their sight." Consider these words, note well these mysteries. After "eating together with them He was taken up." He ate and ascended: that the fact of His eating might show the reality of the Body in Which He went up. But Mark telleth us that before the Lord ascended into heaven, He upbraided His disciples; with their unbelief and hardness of heart. From this I know not why we should gather, but that the Lord then upbraided His disciples, for whom He was about to be parted in the body, to the end that the words which He spoke unto them as He left them might be the deeper imprinted on their hearts.

[Responsory8]
R. Thou makest the clouds the chariot, O Lord,
* Thou walkest upon the wings of the wind. Alleluia.
V. Thou art clothed with honour and majesty, covering thyself with light as with a garment;
R. Thou walkest upon the wings of the wind. Alleluia.
&Gloria
R. Thou walkest upon the wings of the wind. Alleluia.

[Lectio9]
When then, He had rebuked the hardness of their heart, what command did He give~
them? Let us hear. "Go ye into all the world and preach the Gospel to every creature." Was the Holy Gospel, then my brethren, to be preached to thing insensate, or to brute beasts, that the Lord said to His disciples: "Preach the Gospel to every creature"? Nay, but by the words "every creature" we must understand man, in whom are combined qualities of all creatures. Being he hath in common with stones, life in common with trees, feeling in common with beasts, understanding in common with angels. If, then, man hath something in common with every creature, man is to a certain extent every creature. The Gospel, then, if it be preached to man only, is preached to every creature.
&teDeum

[Capitulum Laudes]
!Skutky 1:1-2
v. Ve své dřívější knize jsem pojednal, milý Theofile, o všem, co Ježíš konal a čemu učil až do dne, kdy poté, co dal Apoštolům příkazy skrze Ducha svatého, byl vzat do nebe.
$Deo gratias

[HymnusM Laudes] (rubrica cisterciensis)
v. Toť radost všech je zajisté,
Že On, Syn Panny přečisté,
Po kříži, krutém mučení
Teď trůnit spolu s Otcem smí.
_
A proto díky vzdejme mu,
Obránci spásy vzácnému,
Že naše těla uvede
V jasná svá sídla do nebe.
_
Kéž s nebešťany blaží nás
Společná radost, věčný jas:
Je proto, že k nim zas přišel,
Nás však, že nás neopustil.
_
Nyní, jak Skutky říkají,
Krista my máme čekati;
Takový život žít třeba,
Aby nás vynes v nebesa.
_
Sláva buď tobě, Pane náš,
Jenž nad hvězdy dnes vystoupáš;
S Otcem i svatým Duchem,
vládneš věčným věkům všem.
Amen.

[Versum 2]
V. Pán v nebesích, alleluja.
R. Připravil si svůj trůn, alleluja.

[Ant 2]
Vystupuji * ke svému Otci, i vašemu Otci, k mému Bohu, i k vašemu Bohu, alleluja.

[Octava 2]
Ant. Vystupuji * ke svému Otci, i vašemu Otci, k mému Bohu, i k vašemu Bohu, alleluja.
_
V. Pán v nebi, alleluja.
R. Připravil sobě trůn, alleluja.
(sed rubrica cisterciensis loco hæc versus dicitur)
V. Bůh vystupuje v jásotu, alleluja.
R. A Pán za zvuku trouby, alleluja.
_
Popřej, prosíme, všemohoucí Bože, abychom my, jež věříme, že dnešního dne tvůj Jednorozený, Vykupitel náš, na nebesa vystoupil, sami také myslí v nebesích dleli. 
$Per eumdem

[Lectio Prima]
!Skutky 1:11
v. Muži galilejští, proč tak stojíte a hledíte k nebi? Tento Ježíš, který byl vzat od vás do nebe, přijde zase právě tak, jak jste ho viděli odcházet do nebe.

[Responsory Breve Tertia]
R.br. Vystoupil Bůh za jásotu. * Alleluja, alleluja.
R. Vystoupil Bůh za jásotu. * Alleluja, alleluja.
V. A Pán za zvuku trumpet.
R. Alleluja, alleluja.
&Gloria
R. Vystoupil Bůh za jásotu. * Alleluja, alleluja.

[Capitulum Sexta]
!Skutky 1:4-5
v. Když s nimi jedl, přikázal jim, aby neodcházeli z Jerusaléma, ale čekali na Otcovo zaslíbení: „Vždyť jste přece o tom ode mne slyšeli: Jan křtil vodou, ale vy budete pokřtěni Duchem svatým za několik málo dní.“
$Deo gratias

[Responsory Breve Sexta]
R.br. Když Kristus vystupoval na výsosti. * Alleluja, alleluja.
R. Když Kristus vystupoval na výsosti. * Alleluja, alleluja.
V. Zajal své zajatce.
R. Alleluja, alleluja.
&Gloria
R. Když Kristus vystupoval na výsosti. * Alleluja, alleluja.

[Responsory Breve Nona]
R.br. Vystupuji ke svému Otci, i vašemu Otci. * Alleluja, alleluja.
R. Vystupuji ke svému Otci, i vašemu Otci. * Alleluja, alleluja.
V. K mému Bohu, i k vašemu Bohu.
R. Alleluja, alleluja.
&Gloria
R. Vystupuji ke svému Otci, i vašemu Otci. * Alleluia, alleluia.

[Ant 3]
O Králi slávy, * Hospodine zástupů, jenž jsi jako vítěz dnes vystoupil nad nebesa, nezanechávej nás sirotky; ale pošli příslib Otce mezi nás, Ducha pravdy, alleluja.

[Octava 3]
Ant. O Králi slávy, * Hospodine zástupů, jenž jsi jako vítěz dnes vystoupil nad nebesa, nezanechávej nás sirotky; ale pošli příslib Otce mezi nás, Ducha pravdy, alleluja.
_
V. Bůh vystupuje v jásotu, alleluja.
R. A Pán za zvuku trouby, alleluja.
(sed rubrica tridentina loco hæc versus dicitur)
V. Pán v nebi, alleluja.
R. Připravil sobě trůn, alleluja.
(sed rubrica cisterciensis loco hæc versus dicitur)
V. Když Kristus vystoupil do vysokosti, alleluja.
R. Vysvobodil zajatce, alleluja.
_
Popřej, prosíme, všemohoucí Bože, abychom my, jež věříme, že dnešního dne tvůj Jednorozený, Vykupitel náš, na nebesa vystoupil, sami také myslí v nebesích dleli. 
$Per eumdem

[Responsory TertiaM] (rubrica cisterciensis)
V. Buď vyvýšen, Pane, ve své síle, alleluja.
R. Zpívati budeme a chválit tvou moc, alleluja.

[Responsory SextaM] (rubrica cisterciensis)
V. Z nejvyššího nebe vychází, alleluja.
R. A běží kolem až na jeho konec, alleluja.

[Responsory NonaM] (rubrica cisterciensis)
V. Nezanechávám vás sirotky, alleluja.
R. Opět k vám přijdu, a vaše srdce se zaraduje, alleluja.