[Officium]
Patrocinii St. Joseph Confessoris Sponsi B.M.V. confessoris

[Ant Vespera]
And Jacob begat Joseph, * the husband of Mary, of whom was born Jesus, Who is called Christ. Alleluia.
The Angel Gabriel * was sent from God, unto a city of Galilee, named Nazareth, to a Virgin espoused to a man whose name was Joseph. Alleluia.
And Joseph also went up * from Galilee, out of the city of Nazareth, unto Judea, unto the city of David, which is called Bethlehem. Alleluia.
And they came with haste, * and found Mary and Joseph, and the Babe lying in a manger. Alleluia.
And Jesus Himself began to be about thirty years of age, being (as was supposed) the Son of Joseph. Alleluia.

[Ant Vespera] (rubrica cisterciensis)
Alleluja, * alleluja, alleluja.

[Versum 1]
V. Učinil jej pánem svého domu, alleluja.
R. A vládcem nad veškerým svým majetkem, alleluja.

[Ant 1]
Když byla zasnoubena * Matka Ježíšova, Maria, s Josefem, ještě než spolu začali bydlet, shledala, že je čeká dítě z Ducha svatého, alleluja.

[Oratio]
Bože, jenž jsi ve své nevýslovné prozřetelnosti ráčil vyvolit svatého Josefa za snoubence své přesvaté Rodičky; uděl, prosíme, aby ten, jejž jako ochránce ctíme na zemi, zasloužili si míti jako přímluvce v nebi;
$Qui vivis

[Invit]
In worshipful remembrance of our blessed Defender Joseph,* let us praise our God.

[Ant Matutinum]
The Angel of the Lord appeareth to Joseph in a dream, saying Arise, and take the young Child and His Mother, and flee into Egypt, and be thou there until I bring thee word. Alleluia;;1
;;2
;;3
An Angel of the Lord appeareth in a dream to Joseph (in Egypt) saying Arise, and take the young Child and His Mother, and go into the land of Israel for they are dead which sought the young Child's life. Alleluia;;4
;;5
;;8
Joseph arose, and took the young Child and His Mother, and came into the land of Israel, and dwelt in a city called Nazareth. Alleluia;;14
;;20
;;23

[Nocturn 1 Versum]
V. Budu vyznávat tvé jméno, alleluja.
R. Neboť ses stal mým pomocníkem a ochráncem, alleluja.

[Nocturn 2 Versum]
V. Shlédni s nebe, a pohleď, a navštiv tuto vinici, alleluja.
R. A ochraňuj ji, alleluja.

[Nocturn 3 Versum]
V. Vzýval jsem Pána, Otce mého Pána, alleluja.
R. Aby mě neopustil v den soužení, alleluja.

[Lectio1]
Lesson from the book of Genesis
!Gen 39:1-6
1 And Joseph was brought into Egypt, and Putiphar an eunuch of Pharao, chief captain of the army, an Egyptian, bought him of the Ismaelites, by whom he was brought.
2 And the Lord was with him, and he was a prosperous man in all things: and he dwelt in his master's house,
3 Who knew very well that the Lord was with him, and made all that he did to prosper in his hand.
4 And Joseph found favour in the sight of his master, and ministered to him: and being set over all by him, he governed the house committed to him, and all things that were delivered to him:
5 And the Lord blessed the house of the Egyptian for Joseph's sake, and multiplied all his substance, both at home, and in the fields.
6 Neither knew he any other thing, but the bread which he ate. And Joseph was of a beautiful countenance, and comely to behold.

[Responsory1]
R. The people cried to Pharaoh for bread
* And he answered them Go unto Joseph. Alleluia.
V. The saving of our lives is in thy hand; only let us find grace in thy sight, and we will gladly be Pharaoh's servants.
R. And he answered them Go unto Joseph. Alleluia.

[Lectio2]
!Gen 41:37-43
37 The counsel pleased Pharao and all his servants.
38 And he said to them: Can we find such another man, that is full of the spirit of God?
39 He said therefore to Joseph: Seeing God hath shown thee all that thou hast said, can I find one wiser and one like unto thee?
40 Thou shalt be over my house, and at the commandment of thy mouth all the people shall obey: only in the kingly throne will I be above thee.
41 And again Pharao said to Joseph: Behold, I have appointed thee over the whole land of Egypt.
42 And he took his ring from his own hand, and gave it into his hand: and he put upon him a robe of silk, and put a chain of gold about his neck.
43 And he made him go up into his second chariot, the crier proclaiming that all should bow their knee before him, and that they should know he was made governor over the whole land of Egypt.

[Responsory2]
R. God hath made me as a father to Pharaoh, and lord of all his house.
* He hath made me great, to save much people alive. Alleluia.
V. Come unto me, and I wili give you all the good of the land of Egypt, and ye shall eat the fat of the land.
R. He hath made me great, to save much people alive. Alleluia.

[Lectio3]
!Gen 41:44-49
44 And the king said to Joseph: I am Pharao; without thy commandment no man shall move hand or foot in all the land of Egypt.
45 And he turned his name, and called him in the Egyptian tongue, The saviour of the world. And he gave him to wife Aseneth the daughter of Putiphare priest of Heliopolis. Then Joseph went out to the land of Egypt:
46 (Now he was thirty years old when he stood before king Pharao) and he went round all the countries of Egypt.
47 And the fruitfulness of the seven years came: and the corn being bound up into sheaves was gathered together into the barns of Egypt.
48 And all the abundance of grain was laid up in every city.
49 And there was so great abundance of wheat, that it was equal to the sand of the sea, and the plenty exceeded measure.

[Responsory3]
R. Now shall I die happy, since I have seen thy face, and do leave thee behind me. I am not disappointed of seeing thee.
* The Lord hath showed me also thy seed. Alleluia.
V. He That hath fed me from my youth up, bless the lads, and let my name be named on them.
R. The Lord hath showed me also thy seed. Alleluia.
&Gloria
R. The Lord hath showed me also thy seed. Alleluia.

[Lectio4]
From the Sermons of St. Bernardine of Siena.
!1st of St. Joseph.)
When any special favours are conferred upon a reasonable being, it is the common rule that whenever the grace of God electeth such and such an one for such and such a grace, or for such and such an high post of duty, the person so elected receiveth all the gifts of grace which be needful for him in that state of life whereunto he is called, and receiveth them abundantly. Of this there is an excellent instance in the case of the holy Joseph, the socalled father of our Lord Jesus Christ, and the real husband of her, who is Queen of the world, and Lady of Angels. He had been elected by the Eternal Father to be the faithful nurse and warder of His two chief treasures, that is, His Son, and Joseph's own Wife. This duty Joseph faithfully discharged, and consequently the Lord hath said to him: Well done, thou good and faithful servant enter thou into the joy of thy Lord. (Matth. xxv. 21.)

[Responsory4]
R. Thou hast given me the shield of thy salvation, and thy right hand hath holden me up.
* My buckler, and the horn of my salvation, and my refuge. Alleluia.
V. I am thy shield and thy exceeding great reward.
R. My buckler, and the horn of my salvation, and my refuge. Alleluia.

[Lectio5]
This man Joseph, if we compare him with the Universal Church of Christ, is he not that elect and chosen one, through whom, and under whom, Christ is orderly and honestly brought into the world? If, then, the Holy Universal Church be under a debt to the Virgin Mother, because it is through her that she hath been made to receive Christ, next to Mary she oweth love and worship to Joseph. Joseph is the key of the (Church of the Saints) which were under the Old Testament, in whose person the noble structure of Patriarchs and Prophets reacheth her completion and realiseth her promises. He is the only one of them who actually enjoyed in full fruition what God had been pleased to promise before to them. It is, therefore, with good reason that we see a type of him in that Patriarch Joseph who stored up corn for the people. But the second Joseph hath a more excellent dignity than the first, seeing that the first only gave to the Egyptians bread for the body, but the second was the watchful guardian for all the elect of that Living Bread Which came down from heaven, of Which whosoever eateth will never die.

[Responsory5]
R. He shall set his children under her shelter, and shall lodge under her branches by her shall he be covered from heat,
* And in her glory shall he dwell. Alleluia.
V. Trust in Him, ye congregation of the people, pour out your heart before Him.
R. And in her glory shall he dwell. Alleluia.

[Lectio6]
There can be no doubt that Christ still treateth Joseph in heaven with that familiarity, honour, and most high condescension which He paid him, like a Son to a father, while He walked among men; nay, rather, that He hath now crowned and completed those habits. We may very reasonably suspect that it was with a peculiar meaning that Christ said (to him) Enter thou into the joy of thy Lord. The joy of being blessed for ever entereth into the heart of man, but when the Lord said (to Joseph), Enter thou into joy, He probably meant mystically to bid him realise a joy which should not be within him only, but outside him also, above him, and below him, and all round about him, and overflowing him as it were a great bottomless pit of joy to swallow him up altogether. Therefore, O thou blessed Joseph! remember us! In thy helpful prayers, make intercession for us with Him Who vouchsafed to be supposed thy Son! Likewise, obtain some pity for us from that most blessed Maiden who was thy wife, and the Mother of Him, Who, with the Father and the Holy Ghost, liveth and reigneth, one God, world without end. Amen.

[Responsory6]
R. Though an host should encamp against me, my heart shall not fear.
* Though war should rise against me, in this will I be confident. Alleluia.
V. My praise shall be continually of thee, for Thou art my strong refuge.
R.* Though war should rise against me, in this will I be confident. Alleluia.
&Gloria
R. Though war should rise against me, in this will I be confident. Alleluia.

[Lectio7]
From the Holy Gospel according to Luke
!Luke 3:21
At that time: When all the people were baptized, it came to pass, that Jesus also being baptized and praying, the heaven was opened. And so on.
_
Homily by St. Augustine, Bishop (of Hippo.)
!Book ii., on the Harmony of the Evangelists.
And Jesus Himself began to be about thirty years of age, being (as was supposed) the Son of Joseph. These words, as was supposed, were evidently here written for the correction of such as might think that the Lord was the Son of Joseph, in the same sense as other men are called the children of their fathers. Those who find any trouble in the fact that the ancestors reckoned downward by Matthew from David to Joseph, are other than those reckoned upward by Luke from Joseph to David, such, I say, as are troubled by this, may get over it by supposing that Joseph had two fathers; one, that is, who begat him, and another who adopted him. The custom of adopting children, whereby those who have none of their own surround themselves with a family, is very ancient, even among the people of God. Hence, Luke is understood to have included in his Gospel, under the name of father of Joseph, that, not of the father by whom he was begotten, but of him by whom he was adopted, and it is the ancestors of this adoptive father who are reckoned up as far as David.

[Responsory7]
R. Joseph, thou Son of David, fear not to take unto thee Mary thy wife; for That Which is conceived in her is of the Holy Ghost and she shall bring forth a Son;
* And thou shalt call His Name Jesus. Alleluia.
V. For He shall save His people from their sins.
R. And thou shalt call His Name Jesus. Alleluia.

[Lectio8]
Thus since we are behoven to believe that what each of the Evangelists said was true, Matthew as well as Luke; and therefore that one of them nameth the father who begat, and the other, the father who adopted, Joseph; we naturally suppose that the Evangelist, who nameth the adoptive father, was he who abstaineth from using the term beget.Matthew beginneth (i. 2) Abraham begat Isaac; and Isaac begat Jacob, and so on, always with the use of this word begat, till he cometh to: and Jacob begat Joseph. By the word which he useth he doth sufficiently indicate that the genealogy which he is giving is that of him who begat.

[Responsory8]
R. Arise, and take the young Child, and His Mother, and flee into Egypt;
* And be thou there until I bring thee word. Alleluia.
V. That it might be fulfilled which was spoken of the Lord by the Prophets, saying Out of Egypt have I called My Son.
R. And be thou there until I bring thee word. Alleluia.
&Gloria
R. And be thou there until I bring thee word. Alleluia.

[Lectio9]
Luke saith Joseph was the son of Heli, not Joseph was begotten of Heli; but even if he had said the latter, it would not have troubled this interpretation of ours, that one Evangelist nameth the natural, and the other the adoptive father of Joseph. It is not an outrageous thing to say that one who adopteth another hath begotten him, albeit he hath done it, not carnally, but by love. Even so hath God given to us the power to become His sons, albeit He hath not begotten us of His Own Nature and Substance, as He hath His Only - Begotten Son, but only reckoneth us, in His love, among His children.
&teDeum

[Capitulum Laudes]
!Gen 49:26
v. Požehnání tvého otce, větší než požehnání mých předků, dokud nepřijde Touha věčných pahorků; ať sestoupí na hlavu Josefovu, na témě vyvoleného - Nazarejce - mezi svými bratry.
$Deo gratias

[Versum 2]
V. Dal jsi mi ochranu své spásy, alleluja.
R. A tvá pravice mě podpírá, alleluja.

[Ant 2]
Josefe, synu Davidův, * neboj se přijmout Marii za svou snoubenku; dítě, které se z ní narodí, je z Ducha Svatého, alleluja.

[Lectio Prima]
!Gen 49:22
v. Josef je plodný výhonek, plodný strom nad pramenem, jeho větve visí pres ohradu.

[Responsory Breve Tertia]
R.br. Ustanovil jej pánem svého domu. Alleluja, Alleluja.
R. Ustanovil jej pánem svého domu. Alleluja, Alleluja.
V. A vládcem nad veškerým svým majetkem.
R. Alleluja, Alleluja.
&Gloria
R. Ustanovil jej pánem svého domu. Alleluja, Alleluja.

[Capitulum Sexta]
!Gen 49:25
v. Bůh tvého otce bude tvým pomocníkem, a Všemohoucí ti bude dobrořečit požehnáními z nebe nad námi.
$Deo gratias

[Responsory Breve Sexta]
R.br. Budu vyznávat tvé jméno. * Alleluja, Alleluja.
R. Budu vyznávat tvé jméno. * Alleluja, Alleluja.
V. Neboť ses stal mým pomocníkem a ochráncem.
R. Alleluja, Alleluja.
&Gloria
R. Budu vyznávat tvé jméno. * Alleluja, Alleluja.

[Versum Sexta]
V. Spravedlivý poroste jako lilie, alleluja.
R. A kvést bude navěky před Hospodinem, alleluja.

[Capitulum Nona]
!Gen 49:22
v. Josef je plodný výhonek, plodný strom nad pramenem, jeho větve visí pres ohradu.
$Deo gratias

[Responsory Breve Nona]
R.br. Spravedlivý poroste jako lilie. * Alleluja, Alleluja.
R. Spravedlivý poroste jako lilie. * Alleluja, Alleluja.
V. A kvést bude navěky před Hospodinem.
R. Alleluja, Alleluja.
&Gloria
R. Spravedlivý poroste jako lilie. * Alleluja, Alleluja.

[Versum Nona]
V. Zasazeni v domě Hospodinově, alleluja.
R. V nádvořích domu našeho Boha, alleluja.

[Versum 3]
V. Ve stínu toho, jejž jsem si zamilovala, jsem seděla, alleluja.
R. A jeho plod je sladký mému hrdlu, alleluja.

[Versum 3] (rubrica cisterciensis)
@:Versum 1

[Ant 3]
Synu, proč jsi nám to takto udělal? * Hle, tvůj otec a já jsme tě v bolestech hledali, alleluja.
