[Officium]
Die II infra octavam Paschae

[Oratio]
Bože, jenž jsi velikonoční slavností udělil světu uzdravení; svůj lid, prosíme, nepřestávej obdarovávat nebeským darem, aby si i zasloužil obdržet dokonalou svobodu, i prospíval do života věčného.
$Per Dominum.

[Lectio1]
Continuation of the Holy Gospel according to Luke
!Luke 24:13-35
And behold, two of them went, the same day, to a town which was sixty furlongs from Jerusalem, named Emmaus. And so forth.
_
Homily by Pope St. Gregory (the Great)
!23rd on the Gospels
Dearly beloved brethren, ye hear, how that while two of His disciples walked together in the way, not believing in His Resurrection, but talking, together concerning Him, the Lord manifested Himself unto them, but yet held their eyes that they should not know Him. This holding of the eyes of their body, wrought by the Lord, was a figure of the spiritual veil which was yet upon the eyes of their heart. For in their heart they loved and yet doubted: even as the Lord drew near to them outwardly, but showed not Who He was. To them that talked together of Him, He revealed His immediate presence; but hid, from them that doubted, the knowledge of His Person.

[Responsory1]
R. Marie Magdaléna a druhá Maria vyšly za úsvitu ke hrobu;
* Ježíš, kterého hledáte, zde není, vstal z mrtvých jak řekl, a jde před vámi do Galileje, a tam jej uvidíte, alleluja, alleluja.
V. A brzo ráno první den v týdnu přišly ke hrobu, a slunce již vyšlo; a vešly, a viděli mladíka, který seděl na pravé straně, a řekl jim:
R. Ježíš, kterého hledáte, zde není, vstal z mrtvých jak řekl, a jde před vámi do Galileje, a tam jej uvidíte, alleluja, alleluja.

[Lectio2]
He spoke to them; He rebuked the hardness of their heart; He expounded unto them in all the Scriptures the things concerning Himself: and, nevertheless, seeing that He was yet a stranger to faith in their hearts, He made as though He would have gone further. These words He made as though would here seem to mean He feigned, but He Who is simple Truth doth nothing with feigning: He only showed Himself to them in bodily manners, as He was towards them spiritually; but they were put to the proof whether, though they loved Him not yet as their God, they could love Him at least as a wayfarer.

[Responsory2]
R. The Good Shepherd, Who laid down His life for the sheep, yea, Who was contented even to die for His flock, the Good Shepherd is risen again.
* Alleluia, alleluia, alleluia.
V. For even Christ our Passover is sacrificed for us.
R. Alleluia, alleluia, alleluia.
&Gloria
R. Alleluia, alleluia, alleluia.

[Lectio3]
But since it was impossible, that they with whom Truth walked, should be loveless, they asked Him as a wayfarer to take of their hospitality. But why say we that they asked Him, when it is written: And they constrained Him? From their example we learn that we ought not only to bid, but also to urge, wayfarers to our hospitable entertainment. They laid a table therefore, and set before Him bread and meat; and that God Whom they had not known in the expounding of the Holy Scripture, they knew in the breaking of bread. In hearing the commandments of God they were not enlightened, but they were enlightened in the doing of them: as it is written: Not the hearers of the law are just before God, but the doers of the law shall be justified. (Rom. ii. 13.) Whosoever therefore will understand that which he heareth, let him make haste to practice in his works that which he hath already been able to hear. Behold, the Lord was not known while He spake, but He was contented to be known when He broke bread.
&teDeum

[Ant 2]
Ježíš se přidal * ke svým učedníkům na cestě, a kráčel s nimi; jejich oči však byly zadržovány, aby jej nepoznali; a on je pokáral těmito slovy: O hlupáci, pomalí srdcem uvěřit v tom, co pravili Proroci, alleluja.

[Ant 2] (rubrica cisterciensis)
Co je to za řeči, * které jste si sdělovali navzájem, když jste šli, a jste <i>kvůli nim</i> smutní? alleluja, alleluja. Odpověděl mu jeden, který se jmenoval Kleofáš, a řekl jemu: „Ty jsi jediný poutník v Jerusalémě, který neví, co se tam stalo v těchto dnech?” alleluja. Na to jim Pán řekl: „Co?” oni řekli: „O Ježíši Nazaretském, který byl Prorokem, mocný ve skutcích i slovech před Bohem, i před vším lidem,” alleluja, alleluja.

[Ant 3]
Co je to za řeči, * které jste si sdělovali navzájem, když jste šli, a jste <i>kvůli nim</i> smutní? alleluja.

[Ant 3] (rubrica cisterciensis)
Neplanulo snad naše srdce, * kvůli Ježíšovi, když s námi mluvil na cestě? alleluja.
