[Officium]
úterý ve Svatodušním Oktávu

[Oratio]
Budiž s námi, prosíme, Pane, síla Ducha Svatého; jež naše srdce laskavě očistí, a ochrání ode všech protivenství.
$Per Dominum eiusdem

[Ant Matutinum]
@Tempora/Pasc7-0::s/V\. .*/V. The Comforter, Who is the Holy Ghost. Alleluja.\nR. He shall teach you all things. Alleluja./s

[Lectio1]
Continuation of the Holy Gospel according to John
!John 10:1-10
At that time: Jesus said unto the Pharisees: Amen, amen, I say unto you, he that entereth not by the door into the sheep-fold, but climbeth up some other way, the same is a thief and a robber but he that entereth by the door is the shepherd of the sheep. And so on.
_
Homily by St. Augustine, Bishop of Hippo
!45th Tract on John
In the words of the Gospel which are this day read, the Lord has spoken unto us in similitudes, touching His flock, and the Door whereby entry is made into their fold. The Pagans therefore may say, „We have good lives,“ but if they enter not in the Door, what doth that profit them whereof they make their boast? Good life is profitable to a man if it lead unto life everlasting, but if he does not have life everlasting, what shall his good life profit him? Neither indeed can it be truly said that they live good lives, who are either so blinded as not to know, or so puffed up as to despise, the end of a good life. And no man can have a true and certain hope of life everlasting, unless he know the true Life, Which is Christ, and enter in by that Door into the sheepfold.

[Responsory1]
R. Zjevily se Apoštolům oddělené plameny jakoby ohně, alleluja.
* A na každém z nich se usadil Duch Svatý, alleluja, alleluja.
V. A začali mluvit různými jazyky, neboť Duch Svatý jim dal dar výmluvnosti.
R. A na každém z nich se usadil Duch Svatý, alleluja, alleluja.

[Lectio2]
There are many such, who try to persuade men to live good lives but not to be Christians. These are they who would fain „climb up some other way,“ „for to kill and to destroy,“ and are not as the Good Shepherd, Who is come to keep and to save. There have been philosophers who have treated many subtle questions of right and wrong, who have been the authors of many distinctions and definitions, who have completed many exceedingly clever arguments, who have filled many books, and have proclaimed their own wisdom with braying trumpets. These dared to say to men: „Follow us embrace our school of thought, and you will find therein the secret of an happy life.“ But these were not of them who enter in by the Door; they came not but for to steal, and to kill, and to destroy.

[Responsory2]
R. Apoštolové promlouvali různými jazyky o velikých skutcích Božích,
* Neboť Duch Svatý jim dal dar výmluvnosti, alleluja.
V. Naplněni byli všichni Duchem Svatým, a začali mluvit.
R. Neboť Duch Svatý jim dal dar výmluvnosti, alleluja.
&Gloria
R. Neboť Duch Svatý jim dal dar výmluvnosti, alleluja.

[Lectio3]
Touching these, what shall I say? Behold, the Pharisees themselves read of Christ, and therefore talked of Christ they looked for His coming, and when He came, they knew Him not. They boasted that they themselves were among the Seers, that is, of the wise ones, and they denied Christ, and entered not in by the Door. Therefore they, if they led away any, led them away only to kill and to destroy, not to free them. So much for them. Now let us see if all they who boast the name of Christian enter in by the Door. Some there are, and their number cannot be reckoned, who not only boast that they themselves are among the Seers, but would fain appear as though their hearts were enlightened by Christ but they are heretics.
&teDeum

[Ant 2]
Já jsem brána, * praví Pán: a pokud skrze mě někdo vstoupí, bude uzdraven, a nalezne pastvu, alleluja.

[Ant 3]
Pokoj * vám zanechávám, svůj pokoj vám dávám; ne takový, který dává svět, já vám dám, alleluja.
(sed rubrica cisterciensis aut rubrica praedicatorum)
Amen, pravím vám, * kdo nevstupuje vchodem do ovčína k ovcím, ale vleze tam jinudy, je zloděj a lotr; kdo však vstupuje vchodem, je pastýř těch ovcí, alleluja.
