[Officium]
Feria Tertia infra Hebdomadam I post Octavam Paschae

[Lectio1]
Lesson from the Acts of the Apostles
!Acts 2:1-8
1 And when the days of the Pentecost were accomplished, they were all together in one place:
2 And suddenly there came a sound from heaven, as of a mighty wind coming, and it filled the whole house where they were sitting.
3 And there appeared to them parted tongues as it were of fire, and it sat upon every one of them:
4 And they were all filled with the Holy Ghost, and they began to speak with diverse tongues, according as the Holy Ghost gave them to speak.
5 Now there were dwelling at Jerusalem, Jews, devout men, out of every nation under heaven.
6 And when this was noised abroad, the multitude came together, and were confounded in mind, because that every man heard them speak in his own tongue.
7 And they were all amazed, and wondered, saying: Behold, are not all these, that speak, Galileans?
8 And how have we heard, every man our own tongue wherein we were born?

[Lectio2]
!Acts 2:14-21
14 But Peter standing up with the eleven, lifted up his voice, and spoke to them: Ye men of Judea, and all you that dwell in Jerusalem, be this known to you, and with your ears receive my words.
15 For these are not drunk, as you suppose, seeing it is but the third hour of the day:
16 But this is that which was spoken of by the prophet Joel:
17 And it shall come to pass, in the last days, (saith the Lord,) I will pour out of my Spirit upon all flesh: and your sons and your daughters shall prophesy, and your young men shall see visions, and your old men shall dream dreams.
18 And upon my servants indeed, and upon my handmaids will I pour out in those days of my spirit, and they shall prophesy.
19 And I will show wonders in the heaven above, and signs on the earth beneath: blood and fire, and vapour of smoke.
20 The sun shall be turned into darkness, and the moon into blood, before the great and manifest day of the Lord come.
21 And it shall come to pass, that whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord, shall be saved.

[Lectio3]
!Acts 2:22-27
22 Ye men of Israel, hear these words: Jesus of Nazareth, a man approved of God among you, by miracles, and wonders, and signs, which God did by him, in the midst of you, as you also know:
23 This same being delivered up, by the determinate counsel and foreknowledge of God, you by the hands of wicked men have crucified and slain.
24 Whom God hath raised up, having loosed the sorrows of hell, as it was impossible that he should be holden by it.
25 For David saith concerning him: I foresaw the Lord before my face: because he is at my right hand, that I may not be moved.
26 For this my heart hath been glad, and any tongue hath rejoiced: moreover my flesh also shall rest in hope.
27 Because thou wilt not leave my soul in hell, nor suffer thy Holy One to see corruption.

[Ant 2]
Půjdu před vámo * do Galileje, tam mě uvidíte, jak jsem vám řekl, alleluja, alleluja. 

[Ant 2] (rubrica cisterciensis)
V Galileji * Ježíše uvidíte, jak vám sám řekl, alleluja.

[Ant 3]
Přilož svou ruku * a dotkni se míst po hřebech, alleluja; a nebuď už nevěřící, ale věřící, alleluja. 

[Ant 3] (rubrica cisterciensis)
Vstal totiž Pán z mrtvých, * jak sám řekl, a půjde před vámi do Galileje, alleluja: tam jej uvidíte, alleluja, alleluja, alleluja.
