[Officium]
pondělí ve Svatodušním Oktávu

[Oratio]
Bože, jenž jsi svý Apoštolům dal Svatého Ducha; uděl svému lidu vyslyšení zbožné prosby, abys těm, kterým jsi dal víru, uštědřil též pokoj.
$Per Dominum eiusdem

[Lectio1]
Continuation of the Holy Gospel according to John
!John 3:16-21
At that time, Jesus said unto Nicodemus: God so loved the world that He gave His Only-begotten Son, that whosoever believeth in Him should not perish, but have everlasting life. And so on.
_
Homily by St. Augustine, Bishop of Hippo
!12th Tract on John
The Physician cometh that, as often as in him lieth, he may heal the sick man. He is his own destroyer who will not keep the commandments of the Physician. Into the world came the Saviour. Why is He called the Saviour of the world, but because He came „into the world not to condemn the world, but that the world through Him might be saved“? If thou willest not be saved through Him, thou wilt be condemned of thyself. And why say I that thou wilt be condemned? Because it is written: „He that believeth in Him is not condemned.“ What then canst thou hope that He will say of „him that believeth not,“ but that He will be condemned And indeed He doth say farther: „He that believeth not is condemned already.“ He is condemned already, though the condemnation be not yet openly pronounced.

[Responsory1]
R. Už vás nebudu nazývat služebníky, nýbrž svými přáteli; neboť znáte vše, co jsem vykonal ve vašem středu, alleluja.
* Přijměte v sebe Ducha Svatého, Utěšitele; on je ten, koho vám Otec pošle, alleluja.
V. Vy jste mí přátelé, pokud budete dělat to, co vám přikazuji.
R. Přijměte v sebe Ducha Svatého, Utěšitele; on je ten, koho vám Otec pošle, alleluja.

[Lectio2]
He is condemned already, for „the Lord knoweth them that are His.“ He knoweth them for whom is laid up the crown, and likewise them that are reserved unto the fire. His eye seeth in the field of the world the distinction of the wheat and of the straw, of the good corn and of the tares. „He that believeth not is condemned already.“ And why? „Because he hath not believed in the Name of the Only-begotten Son of God. And this is the condemnation that light is come into the world, and men loved darkness rather than light, because their deeds were evil.“ „Because their deeds were evil”, but, my brethren, is there one man of whom God findeth that his works are good? No, not one. God findeth all works to be (in themselves) bad. How then do we hear that some there be who do truth, and come to the light? For these words come anon: „But he that doeth truth, cometh to the light.“

[Responsory2]
R. Duch Svatý, vycházející od trůnu, neviditelně pronikl hrudi Apoštolů novým znamením posvěcení;
* Aby se v jejich ústech zrodily všechny druhy jazyků, alleluja.
V. Přišel božskou mocí oheň, který nespaluje, ale osvěcuje, a udělil jim dary Ducha Svatého.
R. Aby se v jejich ústech zrodily všechny druhy jazyků, alleluja.
&Gloria
R. Aby se v jejich ústech zrodily všechny druhy jazyků, alleluja.

[Lectio3]
But the Lord saith [of such as these, who are condemned already, because they believe not in Him]: „They loved darkness rather than light.“ And here He maketh the great point [of difference between such, and them that do the truth.] There are many who have loved their sins there are many who have confessed their sins and he that confessed and denounceth his sin, is working already with God. God denounceth thy sins, and if thou denounce them likewise, then dost thou join thyself with God in His act. The man and the sinner are two different things. God made the man, and the man made the sinner. Put away thy work, and God will save His. Thou art behoven to hate in thyself thine own work, and to love God's work. When thine own works begin to displease thee, then is it that thou beginnest to do well, because thou denouncest thine own evil works. The first thing to do, if thou wouldest do good works, is to acknowledge thine evil ones.
&teDeum

[Ant 2]
Tak Bůh miloval svět, * že svého jediného Syna vydal; aby každý, kdo v něj věří, nezahynul, ale měl život věčný. Alleluja.

[Ant 3]
Pokud mě někdo miluje, * zachovává mé slovo; a můj Otec jej miluje, a spolu k němu přijdeme, a připravíme mu u něj příbytek, alleluja.
(sed rubrica cisterciensis aut rubrica praedicatorum)
Bůh totiž neposlal * svého Syna na svět, aby svět soudil, ale aby byl svět spasen skrze něho, alleluja.
