[Officium]
13. Neděle po Svatém Duchu

[Oratio]
Všemohoucí věčný Bože, rozšiř naši víru, naději a lásku; a abychom mohli dosáhnout toho, co slibuješ, dej nám milovat to, co přikazuješ. 
$Per Dominum

[Lectio7]
From the Holy Gospel according to Luke
!Luke 17:11-19
It came to pass, as Jesus went to Jerusalem, that He passed through the midst of Samaria and Galilee. And, as He entered into a certain village, there met Him ten men that were lepers. And so on.
_
Homily by St. Augustine, Bishop of Hippo
!Bk. ii, Gospel Questions, ch. 40
The ten lepers „lifted up their voices and said: Jesus, Master, have mercy on us. And when He saw them, He said unto them Go, show yourselves unto the Priests. And it came to pass that, as they went, they were cleansed.“ Question why did the Lord send them unto the Priests, that, as they went, they might be cleansed Lepers were the only class among those upon whose bodies He worked mercy, whom we find that He sent unto the Priests. It is written in another place that He said to a leper whom He had cleansed: „Go, and show thyself to the Priest, and offer for thy cleansing according as Moses commanded, for a testimony unto them“ (Luke v. 14, Lev. xiv. seq.) We ask then, of what leprosy was a type, whereof they that were ridded were called, not „healed,“ but „cleansed.“ It is a disease which doth first appear in the skin, but destroyeth not immediately the strength, nor the use of feeling and the limbs.

[Lectio8]
The lepers, therefore, we may not absurdly suppose such to be figured as have not the knowledge of the true faith, but do show forth diverse-coloured teachings of error. They hide not their witlessness, but do use all such wit as they have to make it manifest, and proclaim it in high-sounding phrases. There is no false doctrine but hath some truth mixed up with it. A man's discourse then, with some truths in it unequally mingled with falsehoods, and all confounded in one mass, is like to the body of one that is stricken with leprosy, whereon all manner of foul colours do appear in this and that place along with the true colour of skin.

[Lectio9]
Such men as these are banished out of the walls of the Church, to the end that haply when they stand afar off they may lift up their voices and cry to Christ for pardon, just as those ten men that were lepers, which stood afar off, outside the village, lifted up their voices and said „Jesus, Master, have mercy on us.“ That they styled Him Master, by which title I know not if any besought the Lord for bodily healing, I think doth sufficiently show that leprosy signifieth false doctrine, whereof the Good Master doth cleanse us.
&teDeum

[Ant 2]
Když procházel~
(sed rubrica cisterciensis aut rubrica praedicatorum)
Když vstoupil~
Ježíš * jedním městem, vyšlo mu vstříc deset malomocných mužů, kteří stáli v povzdálí, a nahlas volali, pravíce: Jezíši, učiteli, smiluj se nad námi.

[Ant 3_]
Avšak jeden * z nich, když uviděl, že je očištěn, vrátil se, a hlasem velikým velebil Boha, alleluja.

[Ant 3C]
Nebylo snad deset * očištěno? A kde je těch devět? Nenašel se nikdo, kdo by se vrátil a vzdal slávu Bohu, jen tento cizinec. Jdi, tvá víra tě uzdravila, alleluja.
