[Officium]
středy Svatého týdne

[Ant Laudes]
Vysvoboď mě * od prolití krve, Bože, můj Bože: a zajásá můj jazyk nad tvou spravedlností.
Urážky * a hrůzy trpěl jsem od nich: avšak Hospodin je se mnou jako silný válečník.
Ty však, Pane, * znáš každý jejich plán na mé usmrcení.
Všichni moji nepřátelé * slyšeli o mém zlu: Hospodine, zaradovali se, neboť ty jsi to učinil.
Zjednej, Pane, * spravedlnost těm, jež trpí bezpráví; a cesty hříšníků rozptyl.

[Ant Laudes] (rubrica cisterciensis)
Vysvoboď mě * od prolití krve, Bože, můj Bože: a zajásá můj jazyk nad tvou spravedlností.
Urážky * a hrůzy trpěl jsem od nich: avšak Hospodin je se mnou jako silný válečník.
Všichni moji nepřátelé * slyšeli o mém zlu: Hospodine, zaradovali se, neboť ty jsi to učinil.
Smluvili se * mí nepřátelé, a pravili: Vymažeme jej ze země živých.
Služka řekla * Petrovi: Ty jsi opravdu s nich; neboť i tvá řeč to jasně ukazuje.

[Ant Laudes](rubrica monastica aut rubrica tridentina)
Vysvoboď mě * od prolití krve, Bože, můj Bože: a zajásá můj jazyk nad tvou spravedlností.
Urážky * a hrůzy trpěl jsem od nich: avšak Hospodin je se mnou jako silný válečník.
Oni však * marně usilovali o můj život, vstoupili do nitra země.
Všichni moji nepřátelé * slyšeli o mém zlu: Hospodine, zaradovali se, neboť ty jsi to učinil.
Svaž, Pane, * v pouta národy Pohanů, a jejich krále vstav v železa.

[Ant 2_]
Šimone, ty spíš? * Nemohl jsi snad jedinou hodinu bdít se mnou?

[Ant 2C]
Tak dlouho * jsem byl s vámi a učil v chrámě, a nezajali jste mě, a hle, nyní mě zbičovaného vedete k ukřižování.

[Oratio 2]
Uděl, prosíme, všemohoucí Bože; abychom, když našich chyb bez ustání litujeme, pro utpení tvého jednorozeného Syna jsme osvobozeni.
$Qui tecum

[Ant 3]
Služka řekla * Petrovi: Ty jsi opravdu s nich; neboť i tvá řeč to jasně ukazuje.

[Ant 3] (rubrica cisterciensis)
Každý den * jsem u vás učil v chrámě, a nezajali jste mě, a hle, nyní mě zbičovaného vedete k ukřižování.

[Oratio 3]
Shlédni, prosíme, Pane, na tuto svou rodinu, pro kterou náš Pán Ježíš Kristus neváhal vydat se do rukou hříšných, a podstoupit muka kříže.
$Qui tecum

[Lectio1]
Lesson from the book of Jeremias
!Jer 17:13-18
13 O Lord, the hope of Israel: all that forsake thee shall be confounded: they that depart from thee, shall be written in the earth: because they have forsaken the Lord, the vein of living waters. 
14 Heal me, O Lord, and I shall be healed: save me, and I shall be saved, for thou art my praise. 
15 Behold they say to me: Where is the word of the Lord? let it come.
16 And I am not troubled, following thee for my pastor, and I have not desired the day of man, thou knowest. That which went out of my lips, hath been right in thy sight. 
17 Be not thou a terror unto me, thou art my hope in the day of affliction. 
18 Let them be confounded that persecute me, and let not me be confounded: let them be afraid, and let not me be afraid: bring upon them the day of affliction, and with a double destruction, destroy them.

[Responsory1]
R. They have spoken against me with a lying tongue; they compassed me about also with words of hatred: in return for my love they were my adversaries: 
* But I gave myself unto prayer; and Thou hast heard me, Lord my God!
V. And they have rewarded me evil for good, and hatred for my love.
R. But I gave myself unto prayer; and Thou hast heard me, Lord my God!

[Lectio2]
!Jer 18:13-18
13 Therefore thus saith the Lord: Ask among the nations: Who hath heard such horrible things, as the virgin of Israel hath done to excess? 
14 Shall the snow of Libanus fail from the rock of the field? or can the cold waters that gush out and run down, be taken away? 
15 Because my people have forgotten me, sacrificing in vain, and stumbling in their ways, in ancient paths, to walk by them in a way not trodden:
16 That their land might be given up to desolation, and to a perpetual hissing: every one that shall pass by it, shall be astonished, and wag his head. 
17 As a burning will I scatter them before the enemy: I will shew them the back, and not the face, in the day of their destruction. 
18 And they said: Come, and let us invent devices against Jeremias: for the law shall not perish from the priest, nor counsel from the wise, nor the word from the prophet: come, and let us strike him with the tongue, and let us give no heed to all his words.

[Lectio3]
!Jer 18:19-23
19 Give heed to me, O Lord, and hear the voice of my adversaries. 
20 Shall evil be rendered for good, because they have digged a pit for my soul? Remember that I have stood in thy sight, to speak good for them, and turn away thy indignation from them.
21 Therefore deliver up their children to famine, and bring them into the hands of the sword: let their wives be bereaved of children and widows: and let their husbands be slain by death: let their young men be stabbed with the sword in battle. 
22 Let a cry be heard out of their houses: for thou shalt bring the robber upon them suddenly: because they have digged a pit to take me, and have hid snares for my feet. 
23 But thou, O Lord, knowest all their counsel against me unto death: forgive not their iniquity, and let not their sin be blotted out from thy sight: let them be overthrown before thy eyes, in the time of thy wrath do thou destroy them.
