[Rank]
úterý v druhém týdnu doby Svatopostní;;Feria major;;2

[Lectio1]
Continuation of the Holy Gospel according to Matthew
!Matt 23:1-12
At that time, Jesus spoke to the multitudes and to his disciples, saying: The scribes and the Pharisees have sitten on the chair of Moses. All things therefore whatsoever they shall say to you, observe and do: but according to their works do ye not; for they say, and do not. And so on.
_
Homily by St. Jerome, Priest (at Bethlehem.)
!Bk. iv Comm. on Matth. xxiii
Was there ever man gentler and kinder than the Lord? The Pharisees tempted Him; their craft was confounded, and, in the words of the Psalmist, The arrows of babes have pierced them, (Ps. lxiii. 8,) and nevertheless, because of the dignity of their priesthood and name, He exhorteth the people to be subject to them, by doing according to their words, though not according to their works. By the words “Moses' seat” we are to understand the teaching of the law. Thus also must we mystically take: “Sitteth in the seat of the scornful”, (Ps. i. 1,) and likewise, “overthrew the seats of them that sold doves”, (Matth. xxi. 12,) to describe doctrine.

[Lectio2]
How they bind heavy burdens, and grievous to be borne, and lay them on men's shoulders, but they themselves will not move them with one of their fingers. This is generally directed against all teachers who command things hard, and themselves do not even things easy. But it is to be remarked that the shoulders, the fingers, and the binding of the burdens, have a spiritual interpretation. But all their works they do for to be seen of men. Whosoever therefore doth anything for to be seen of men, the same is, so far, a Scribe and a Pharisee.

[Lectio3]
They make broad their phylacteries, and enlarge the borders of their garments. And love the uppermost rooms at feasts, and the chief seats in the synagogues, and greetings in the markets, and to be called of men, Rabbi. Woe to us miserable sinners who have inherited the vices of the Pharisees! When the Lord had given the commandments of the law to Moses He added afterwards Thou shalt bind them for a sign upon thine hand, and they shall be as frontlets between thine eyes, (Deut. vi. 8.) The sense of these words is: My Law shall be in thine hand to order whatsoever thou doest, and ever before thine eyes that thou mayest meditate therein day and night. But the Pharisees, by a bad interpretation, were accustomed to write on pieces of parchment the Decalogue of Moses, that is, the Ten Words of the Law, and to tie these pieces of parchment, plaited in a peculiar manner, on their foreheads, so as to make a sort of crown round their heads, which projected in front of their eyes, and always moved before them.

[Ant 2]
Je totiž jeden * váš Učitel, který je v nebesích, Kristus Pán.

[Oratio 2]
Posil, prosíme, Pane, laskavě v nás podporu ve svaté poslušnosti; abychom poznali, co nám říkáš, že máme dělat, a s tvou pomocí též vykonali.
$Per Dominum

[Ant 3]
Vy všichni * jste však bratři; a otcem nenazývejte nikoho zde na zemi; jeden je totiž váš Otec, a ten je v nebesích; ani se nenazývejte učiteli, neboť váš jediný učitel je Kristus.

[Ant 3] (rubrica cisterciensis)
Kdo je z vás tím větším, * bude vaším služebníkem; neboť každý, kdo se povyšuje, bude ponížen, praví Pán.

[Oratio 3]
Pospěš, pane, vyslyšet naše pokorné prosby, a uzdrav nemoci našich duší; abychom pocítili tvé odpuštění a vždy se radovali v tvém požehnání.
$Per Dominum
