[Rank]
úterý Svatého týdne;;Feria privilegiata;;6

[Rank] (rubrica 1955 aut rubrica 1960)
úterý Svatého týdne;;Feria privilegiata;;6

[Lectio1]
Lesson from the book of Jeremias
!Jer 11:15-20
15 What is the meaning that my beloved hath wrought much wickedness in my house? shall the holy flesh take away from thee thy crimes, in which thou hast boasted?
16 The Lord called thy name, a plentiful olive tree, fair, fruitful, and beautiful: at the noise of a word, a great fire was kindled in it and the branches thereof are burnt.
17 And the Lord of hosts that planted thee, hath pronounced evil against thee: for the evils of the house of Israel, and the house of Juda, which they have done to themselves, to provoke me, offering sacrifice to Baalim.
18 But thou, O Lord, hast shewn me, and I have known: then thou shewedst me their doings.
19 And I was as a meek lamb, that is carried to be a victim: and I knew not that they had devised counsels against me, saying: Let us put wood on his bread, and cut him off from the land of the living, and let his name be remembered no more.
20 But thou, O Lord of Sabaoth, who judgest justly, and triest the reins and hearts, let me see thy revenge on them: for to thee I have revealed my cause.

[Responsory1]
R. I have suffered defaming and fear from them that were my familiars they watched for my halting, saying Let us entice him, and prevail against him. But Thou, O Lord, art with me, as a Mighty Terrible One.
* Let them stumble into everlasting confusion, that I may see thy vengeance upon them, for unto thee have I opened my cause.
V. O Lord, plead Thou the cause of my soul, Thou That art the Redeemer of my life.
R. Let them stumble into everlasting confusion, that I may see thy vengeance upon them, for unto thee have I opened my cause.

[Lectio2]
!Jer 12:1-4
1 Thou indeed, O Lord, art just, if I plead with thee, but yet I will speak what is just to thee: Why doth the way of the wicked prosper: why is it well with all them that transgress, and do wickedly?
2 Thou hast planted them, and they have taken root: they prosper and bring forth fruit: thou art near in their mouth, and far from their reins.
3 And thou, O Lord, hast known me, thou hast seen me, and proved my heart with thee: gather them together as sheep for a sacrifice, and prepare them for the day of slaughter.
4 How long shall the land mourn, and the herb of every field wither for the wickedness of them that dwell therein? The beasts and the birds are consumed: because they have said: He shall not see our last end.

[Responsory2]
R. For thy sake, O God of Israel, I have borne reproach; shame hath covered my face; I am become a stranger unto my brethren, and an alien unto my mother's children.
* For the zeal of thine house hath eaten me up.
V. Draw nigh unto my soul, and redeem it; deliver me, because of mine enemies.
R. For the zeal of thine house hath eaten me up.

[Lectio3]
!Jer 12:7-11
7 I have forsaken my house, I have left my inheritance: I have given my dear soul into the land of her enemies.
8 My inheritance is become to me as a lion in the wood: it hath cried out against me, therefore have I hated it.
9 Is my inheritance to me as a speckled bird? Is it as a bird died throughout? come ye, assemble yourselves, all the beasts of the earth, make haste to devour.
10 Many pastors have destroyed my vineyard, they have trodden my portion under foot: they have changed my delightful portion into a desolate wilderness.
11 They have laid it waste, and it hath mourned for me. With desolation is all the land made desolate; because there is none that considereth in the heart.

[Responsory3]
R. The congregation of the people hath compassed me about, but I rewarded no evil unto him that rewarded evil unto me.
* O Lord, let the wickedness of the wicked come to an end, but establish the just.
V. Judge me, O Lord, according to my righteousness, and according to mine integrity that is in me.
R. O Lord, let the wickedness of the wicked come to an end, but establish the just.
&Gloria
R. The congregation of the people hath compassed me about, but I rewarded no evil unto him that rewarded evil unto me. O Lord, let the wickedness of the wicked come to an end, but establish the just.

[Ant Laudes]
Pohleď, Pane, * a popatř, neboť se trápím; rychle mě vyslyš.
Pohleď na mou při, * Pane; od člověka zlého a lstivého vysvoboď mě.
Když jsem zažíval utrpení, * volal jsem k Hospodinu z hlubiny svého nitra, a on mě vyslyšel
Pane, velmi trpím, * odpověz za mě; neboť nevím, co bych měl říct svým nepřátelům.
Řekli bezbožníci: * Utlačujme muže spravedlivého, neboť je pravým opakem našich skutků.

[Ant Laudes] (rubrica cisterciensis)
Pohleď, Pane, * a popatř, neboť se trápím; rychle mě vyslyš.
Pohleď na mou při, * Pane; od člověka zlého a lstivého vysvoboď mě.
Když jsem zažíval utrpení, * volal jsem k Hospodinu z hlubiny svého nitra, a on mě vyslyšel
Řekli bezbožníci: * Utlačujme muže spravedlivého, neboť je pravým opakem našich skutků.
Mám moc * položit svůj život, a opět si jej vzít zpět.

[Ant 2]
Před slavnostním dnem * Paschy, když Ježíš věděl, že přichází jeho hodina, miloval své drahé, a miloval je až do konce.

[Ant 2] (rubrica cisterciensis)
Nikdo * mi nevzal můj život, ale já sám jej vydávám, a opět si jej vezmu zpět.

[Oratio 2]
Všemohoucí věčný Bože; dej nám tak prožít tajemství utrpení Páně; abychom si zasloužili pocítit odpuštění.
$Per eumdem

[Ant 3]
Mám moc * položit svůj život, a opět si jej vzít zpět.

[Ant 3] (rubrica cisterciensis)
Duše bezbožníků * skřípali zuby proti mně, a obtíženo bylo mé srdce nad nimi.

[Oratio 3]
Tvé milosrdenství nechť nás, Bože, i od jakéhokoliv vkradení se starého člověka očistí, i nás schopnými svaté novosti učiní.
$Per Dominum.
