[Rank]
středy v Pašijovám týdnu;;Feria major;;2

[Lectio1]
Continuation of the Holy Gospel according to John
!John 10:22-38
In that time, it was the feast of the dedication at Jerusalem: and it was winter. And Jesus walked in the temple, in Solomon's porch. And so on.
_
Homily by St. Augustine, Bishop (of Hippo.)
!42th Tract on John
The Greek word Enkainia, used by the Evangelist, signifieth the Feast of the Dedication of the Temple. The derivation thereof is kainon, which is, being interpreted, new; and the Dedication of anything new is thence called Enkainia. The use of this word is still preserved among ourselves; if any man put on his new coat for the first time we say that he enkainiateth. It was the use of the Jews to keep solemn holiday upon the Anniversary of the Dedication of the Temple, and this was the Feast-day which was being observed when the Lord spake the words which have been read.

[Lectio2]
It was winter. And Jesus walked in the Temple in Solomon's Porch. Then came the Jews round about Him, and said unto Him: How long dost Thou make us to doubt? If Thou be the Christ, tell us plainly. They sought not to know the truth, but to have whereof to accuse Him. It was winter, and they were cold; for they were slow to draw near to God's fire. If to believe is to draw near thereto, then he which believeth draweth near thereto and he which denieth, goeth away therefrom. The soul is not moved by the feet but by the affections.

[Lectio3]
They were frozen with want of love, and at the same time on fire with thirst to do injury. They stood afar off, and yet came near; for though they drew not near by faith, they were eager to persecute. They sought to hear the Lord say I am the Christ; and perchance they knew somewhat concerning Christ, as touching His Manhood, for the Prophets had prophesied of Christ. But the Godhead of Christ even some heretics do not see witnessed either in the Prophets or in the Gospel; how much less the Jews, as long as the veil is upon their heart. (2 Cor. iii. 15.)

[Ant 2]
Mé ovce * slyší můj hlas; a já, Pán, je znám.

[Oratio 2]
Když jsou posvěcena tímto postem, osvěť srdce svých věrných; a když jim uděluješ pocit oddanosti, uděl svým prosebníkům své dobrotivé vyslyšení.
$Per Dominum

[Ant 3]
Mnohé dobré skutky * jsem vám učinil; pro který z nich mě chcete zabít?

[Oratio 3]
Pomoz svým prosebníkům, všemohoucí Bože; a těm, kterým udělíš nadějnou důvěru v tvou laskavost, uděl též dobrotivý účinek tvého obvyklého milosrdenství.
$Per Dominum.
