[Rank]
soboty v Pašijovám týdnu;;Feria major;;2

[Lectio1]
Continuation of the Holy Gospel according to John
!John 12:10-36
In that time, the chief priests thought to kill Lazarus also: Because many of the Jews, by reason of him, went away, and believed in Jesus. And so on.
_
Homily by St. Augustine, Bishop (of Hippo)
!50th Tract on John
When they saw Lazarus who had been raised from the dead, and knew that the miracle which the Lord had worked was so great, spread about by so many witnesses, and so plain and manifest that it could neither be concealed nor denied, they invented an expedient; and see here what it was: “But the chief Priests consulted that they might put Lazarus also to death.” What stupidity of thought, what blindness of cruelty is here! If the Lord Christ had raised up again a man who had died a natural death, could He not also raise up one that had died by violence? Would killing Lazarus paralyse the Lord? But if ye consider that there is a difference between a man dead of disease, and a man killed, behold, the Lord hath raised up both for He first raised up Lazarus, who had died a natural death, and then Himself, after a violent one.

[Lectio2]
“On the next day much people that were come to the feast, when they heard that Jesus was coming to Jerusalem, took branches of palm-trees, and went forth to meet Him, and cried Hosanna! Blessed is the King of Israel That cometh in the Name of the Lord!” Palm branches are glorious boughs which tell of victory; yea, the Lord was now ready by His Own Death to trample down death, and to carry the victorious banner of His Cross in triumph over the devil, the prince of death. The cry with which He was greeted, namely “Hosanna,” hath not, as we are assured by some who are acquainted with the Hebrew language, any meaning in particular, but is a shout after the manner of interjections, as they are called, just as in Latin when we lament we say “Heu,” or when we are pleased, “Vah.”

[Lectio3]
These were the shouts of applause with which the crowd greeted Him, “Hosanna! Blessed is the King of Israel That cometh in the Name of the Lord!” What inward torture must the jealousy of the Jewish leaders have caused them, when they heard that great multitude hailing Christ as their King! But, for the Lord, what was it to be King of Israel? To the Eternal King what mattered it to become a King of men? And Christ is not King of Israel in the sense of monarchs who exact tribute, or arm hosts with steel to conquer enemies that are seen. But King of Israel He is, as He Who is Lord of our intellect, a Ruler Whose power shall never wane, and Who openeth a Kingdom in heaven to all such as centre in Him their faith, their hope, and their love.

[Ant 2]
Oslav mě, Otče, * sám u sebe slávou, kterou jsi měl ještě než vznikl svět.

[Ant 2] (rubrica cisterciensis)
Spravedlivý Otče, * svět tě nepoznal; já tě však znám, neboť ty jsi mě poslal.

[Oratio 2]
Ať prospívá, prosíme, Pane, lid tobě zasvěcený, jat citem zbožné oddanosti; aby svatými skutky vzděláván, jakou vznešeností byl tobě milejší, tím mocnějšími dary byl posilován.
$Per Dominum
