[Officium]
Feria Quinta in Coena Domini

[Ant Vespera]
Kalich * spásy vezmu a budu vzývat jméno Páně.;;115
S těmito, * kdo nenávidí mír, jsem byl mírumilovný: a když jsem s nimi mluvil, zbytečně mě napadali.;;119
Od lidí * nepravých vysvoboď mne, Pane.;;139
Chraň mě * od léčky, kterou na mě přichystali, a od pastí pachatelů nepravostí.;;140
Pohlédl jsem * napravo, a viděl jsem, že tam nebyl nikdo, kdo by mě poznal.;;141

[Oratio]
v. Kristus se pro nás stal poslušným až k smrti.
!v tichosti
$Pater noster
!o něco hlasitěji
_
&psalm(50)
(sed rubrica 1955 aut rubrica 1960 aut rubrica monastica nisi rubrica cisterciensis omittitur)
@:Oratio Matutinum

[Prelude Vespera] (rubrica 1955 aut rubrica 1960)
!Today, Vespers are not said by those who assist at the evening Mass of the Lord's Supper.

[Ant Matutinum]
The zeal of thine house * hath eaten me up, and the reproaches of them that reproached thee are fallen upon me.;;68
Let them be turned backward * and put to confusion that desire my hurt.;;69
Deliver me, my God, * out of the hand of the wicked.;;70
V. Let them be turned backward and put to confusion.
R. That desire my hurt.
The Lord shall deliver * the needy from the strong: the poor also, that hath no helper.;;71
The ungodly think * and speak wickedness: they speak loftily concerning oppression.;;72
Arise, O Lord, * and judge my cause.;;73
V. Deliver me, O my God, out of the hand of the wicked.
R. Out of the hand of the unrighteous and cruel man.
I said unto the wicked: * Speak not wickedness against God.;;74
The earth trembled * and was still, when God arose to judgment.;;75
In the day of my trouble * I sought God with my hands.;;76
V. Arise, O Lord.
R. Judge Thou my cause.

[Lectio1]
Lesson from the book of Lamentations
!Lam 1:1-5
1 Aleph. How doth the city sit solitary that was full of people! how is the mistress of the Gentiles become as a widow: the princes of provinces made tributary!
2 Beth. Weeping she hath wept in the night, and her tears are on her cheeks: there is none to comfort her among all them that were dear to her: all her friends have despised her, and are become her enemies.
3 Ghimel. Juda hath removed her dwelling place because of her affliction, and the greatness of her bondage: she hath dwelt among the nations, and she hath found no rest: all her persecutors have taken her in the midst of straits.
4 Daleth. The ways of Sion mourn, because there are none that come to the solemn feast: all her gates are broken down: her priests sigh: her virgins are in affliction, and she is oppressed with bitterness.
5 He. Her adversaries are become her lords, her enemies are enriched: because the Lord hath spoken against her for the multitude of her iniquities: her children are led into captivity: before the face of the oppressor.
r. Jerusalem, Jerusalem, return to the Lord thy God.

[Responsory1]
R. At the Mount of Olives He prayed unto the Father: O My Father, if it be possible, let this cup pass from Me!
* The spirit indeed is willing, but the flesh is weak.
V. Watch and pray, that ye enter not into temptation.
R. The spirit indeed is willing, but the flesh is weak.

[Lectio2]
!Lam 1:6-9
6 Vau. And from the daughter of Sion all her beauty is departed: her princes are become like rams that find no pastures: and they are gone away without strength before the face of the pursuer.
7 Zain. Jerusalem hath remembered the days of her affliction, and prevarication of all her desirable things which she had from the days of old, when her people fell in the enemy's hand, and there was no helper: the enemies have seen her, and have mocked at her sabbaths.
8 Heth. Jerusalem hath grievously sinned, therefore is she become unstable: all that honoured her have despised her, because they have seen her shame: but she sighed and turned backward.
9 Teth. Her filthiness is on her feet, and she hath not remembered her end: she is wonderfully cast down, not having a comforter: behold, O Lord, my affliction, because the enemy is lifted up. 
r. Jerusalem, Jerusalem, return to the Lord thy God.

[Responsory2]
R. My Soul is exceeding sorrowful, even unto death: tarry ye here and watch with Me * Yet a little while, and ye shall see the multitude close Me in. Ye shall flee; and I will go to be offered a sacrifice for you.
V. Behold, the hour is at hand, and the Son of man is betrayed into the hands of sinners.
R. Ye shall flee; and I will go to be offered a sacrifice for you.

[Lectio3]
!Lam 1:10-14
10 Jod. The enemy hath put out his hand to all her desirable things: for she hath seen the Gentiles enter into her sanctuary, of whom thou gavest commandment that they should not enter into thy church.
11 Caph. All her people sigh, they seek bread: they have given all their precious things for food to relieve the soul: see, O Lord, and consider, for I am become vile.
12 Lamed. O all ye that pass by the way, attend, and see if there be any sorrow like to my sorrow: for he hath made a vintage of me, as the Lord spoke in the day of his fierce anger.
13 Mem. From above he hath sent fire into my bones, and hath chastised me: he hath spread a net for my feet, he hath turned me back: he hath made me desolate, wasted with sorrow all the day long.
14 Nun. The yoke of my iniquities hath watched: they are folded together in his hand, and put upon my neck: my strength is weakened: the Lord hath delivered me into a hand out of which I am not able to rise.
r. Jerusalem, Jerusalem, return to the Lord thy God.

[Responsory3]
R. Behold, when we shall see Him, He hath no form nor comeliness: there is no beauty in Him: this is He Which hath borne our griefs and carried our sorrows; but He was wounded for our transgressions
* And with His stripes we are healed.
V. Surely He hath borne our griefs and carried our sorrows.
R. And with His stripes we are healed.
&Gloria
R. Behold, when we shall see Him, He hath no form nor comeliness: there is no beauty in Him; this is He Which hath borne our sins and carried our sorrows: but He was wounded for our transgressions, and with His stripes we are healed.

[Lectio4]
From the Treatise of St. Augustine, Bishop (of Hippo) Upon the Psalms
!On Psalm liv, 1
Give ear to my prayer, O God, and despise not my supplication: attend unto me and hear me. These are the words of a man travailing, anxious, and troubled. He prayeth in the midst of much suffering, longing to be rid of his affliction. Our part is to see what that his affliction was, and when he hath told us, to acknowledge that we also suffer therefrom; that so, partaking in his trouble, we may take part also in his exercise, and am troubled. Wherein mourned he? Wherein was he troubled? He saith: In my exercise. In the next words he giveth us to know that his affliction was the oppression of the wicked, because of the voice of the enemy, and because of the oppression of the wicked, and this suffering which came upon him at the hands of wicked men, he hath called his exercise. Think not that wicked men are in this world for nothing, or that God doth no good with them. Every wicked man liveth, either to repent, or to exercise the righteous.

[Responsory4]
R. Mine own friend hath betrayed Me by the sign of a kiss: Whomsoever I shall kiss, That Same is He; hold Him fast. This was the traitorous sign which he gave, even he who murdered with a kiss.
* Woe unto that man! He cast down the price of blood, and went, and hanged himself.
V. It had been good for that man if he had not been born.
R. Woe unto that man! He cast down the price of blood, and went, and hanged himself.

[Lectio5]
Would to God that they which now exercise us were converted and exercised with us! Yet, while they are as they are, and exercise us, we will not hate them: for we know not of any one of them whether he will endure to the end in his sin. Yea, oftentimes, when thou deemest that thou hatest thine enemy, he whom thou hatest is thy brother, and thou knowest it not. The Holy Scriptures show us that the devil and his angels are already damned unto everlasting fire, and therefore of their repentance it behoveth us to despair; but of theirs only. These are they against whom we wrestle within; to the which wrestling the Apostle stirreth us up where he saith: We wrestle not against flesh and blood, (that is, not against men whom we see,) but against principalities, against powers, against the rulers of the darkness of this world. (Eph. vi. 12.) He saith not the rulers of this world, lest perchance thou shouldest deem that devils are the lords of heaven and earth; what he doth say is, rulers of the darkness of this world, of that world which they love who love the world, of that world wherein the ungodly and unrighteous do prosper, of that world, in fine, of which the Gospel saith: And the world knew Him not.

[Responsory5]
R. The vile trader Judas came to the Lord to kiss Him, and He, as a guileless Lamb, refused not a kiss to Judas,
* Who, for a certain number of pence, betrayed Christ to the Jews.
V. It had been good for that man if he had not been born.
R. Who, for a certain number of pence, betrayed Christ to the Jews.

[Lectio6]
We have seen iniquity and strife in the city. (v. 10.) Behold, the glory of the Cross. That Cross which was the object of the insults of God's enemies, is established now above the brows of kings. The end hath shown the measure of its power: it hath conquered the world, not by the sword, but by its wood. The enemies of God thought the Cross a meet object of insult and ridicule, yea, they stood before it, wagging their heads and saying: If He be the Son of God, let Him come down from the Cross! (Matth. xxvii. 39, 40.) And He stretched forth His Hands unto a disobedient and gainsaying people. (Rom. x. 21.) If he is just which liveth by faith, (Rom. i. 17; Hab. ii. 4,) he is unjust that hath not faith. Therefore where is written iniquity we may understand unbelief. The Lord therefore saith that He saw iniquity and strife in the city, and that He stretched forth His Hands unto that disobedient and gainsaying people, and, disobedient and gainsaying as they were, He was hungry for their salvation, and said: Father, forgive them, for they know not what they do. (Luke xxiii. 34.)

[Responsory6]
R. One of My disciples shall betray Me this night. Woe unto that man by whom I am betrayed!
* It had been good for that man if he had not been born.
V. He that dippeth his hand with Me in the dish, the same shall betray Me into the hands of sinners.
R. It had been good for that man if he had not been born.
&Gloria
R. One of My disciples shall betray Me this night. Woe unto that man by whom I am betrayed. * It had been good for that man if he had not been born.

[Lectio7]
Čtení z prvního listu svatého Apoštola Pavla Korinťanům
!1 Kor 11:17-22
17 A když už jsem v tom nařizování: Nemohu chválit, že když se scházíte, je to spíše ke škodě než k užitku.
18 Předně slyším, že když se shromažďujete v církevní obci, oddělujete se jedni od druhých, a zčásti tomu věřím.
19 Nedá se tomu vyhnout, že mezi vámi dojde i k rozštěpení. Tak se aspoň ukáže, kteří z vás jsou opravdu dobří.
20 Když se tedy scházíte, už to není večeře, jak ji ustanovil Pán.
21 Každý si totiž bere, co si přinesl k jídlu, takže potom jeden má hlad, a druhý je napilý.
22 Copak nemáte domy, kde byste se mohli najíst a napít? Či pohrdáte církevní obcí Boží, že zahanbujete ty, kdo nic nemají? Co vám na to mám říci? Pochválit vás? V tomhle vás chválit nemohu.

[Responsory7]
R. Byl jsem jako nevinný beránek; veden jsem byl k obětování, ale nevěděl jsem to; spolčili se proti mě moji nepřátelé, a říkali:
* Pojďte, nasypeme <i>jedovaté</i> piliny do jeho jídla, a vyřízneme jej ze země živých.
V. Všichni moji nepřátelé snovaly zlé plány proti mně; zlá slova pronášeli proti mně, a pravili:
R. Pojďte, nasypeme <i>jedovaté</i> piliny do jeho jídla, a vyřízneme jej ze země živých.

[Lectio8]
!1 Kor 11:23-26
23 Co jsem od Pána přijal, v tom jsem vás také vyučil: Pán Ježíš právě tu noc, kdy byl zrazen, vzal chléb,
24 vzdal díky, rozlámal ho a řekl: „Toto je moje tělo, které se za vás vydává. To čiňte na mou památku“.
25 Podobně vzal po večeři i kalich a řekl: „Tento kalich je nová smlouva, potvrzená mou krví. Kdykoli z něho budete pít, čiňte to na mou památku.“
26 Kdykoli totiž jíte tento chléb a pijete z tohoto kalicha, zvěstujete smrt Páně, dokud on nepřijde.

[Responsory8]
R. Jedinou hodinu jste nemohli bdít se mnou, vy, kdo jste se předháněli, kdo za mě zemře?
* Nebo jste neviděli Jidáše, jak nespí, ale pospíchá mě vydat Židům?
V. Proč spíte? Vstaňte a modlete se, abyste nevešli v pokušení.
R. Nebo jste neviděli Jidáše, jak nespí, ale pospíchá mě vydat Židům?

[Lectio9]
!1 Kor 11:27-34
27 Kdo by tedy jedl tento chléb nebo pil kalich Páně nehodně, proviní se proti tělu a krvi Páně.
28 Proto musí člověk sám sebe zkoumat, a tak ať chléb jí a z kalicha pije.
29 Kdo totiž jí a pije, a tělo Páně nerozlišuje od obyčejného chleba, jí a pije si odsouzení.
30 Proto je mezi vámi tolik nemocných a churavých a mnoho jich už umřelo.
31 Kdybychom se sami správně posuzovali, nebyli bychom trestáni.
32 Ale když nás Pán trestá, je to k naší nápravě, abychom nebyli odsouzeni s tímto světem.
33 Proto, moji bratři, když se scházíte k jídlu, čekejte jedni na druhé.
34 Má-li kdo hlad, ať se nají doma, abyste se nescházeli k potrestání. Ostatní věci pak zařídím, až přijdu.

[Responsory9]
R. Starší lidu se usnesli,
* Že Ježíše lstí zajmou a zabijí; s meči a kyji pak vyšli jako na zločince.
V. Vešli starší a Fariseové v radu.
R. Že Ježíše lstí zajmou a zabijí; s meči a kyji pak vyšli jako na zločince.
&Gloria
R. Že Ježíše lstí zajmou a zabijí; s meči a kyji pak vyšli jako na zločince.

[Oratio Matutinum]
v. Shlédni, prosíme, Pane, na tuto svou rodinu, pro niž náš Pán Ježíš Kristus neváhal vydat se v ruce zlých, a podstoupit kruté muky kříže.
!V tichosti se dokončí
$Qui tecum

[Oratio Matutinum] (rubrica cisterciensis)
v. Shlédni, prosíme, Pane, na tuto svou rodinu, pro niž náš Pán Ježíš Kristus neváhal vydat se v ruce zlých, a podstoupit kruté muky kříže.
!A v tichosti všichni dokončí 
$Qui tecum


[Ant Laudes]
Jsi spravedlivý, Pane, * ve svých výrocích, a zvítězíš, pokud budeš souzen.
Pán * jako ovce na porážku byl veden, a neotevřel svá ústa.
Zkroušeno jest * má srdce v mém nitru, roztřásly se všechny mé kosti.
Byl povzbuzen * ve tvé ctnosti, a ve tvém svatém pokrmu, Pane.
Byl obětován * neboť on sám to chtěl, a naše hříchy on sám nesl.

[Versum 2]
V. Člověk mého pokoje, v něhož doufám.
R. Neboť jedl můj chléb, a přesto udělal svou zradu proti mě ještě větší.

[Ant 2]
Zrádce pak * dal jim znamení, řka: Ten, kterého políbím, to je on, zadržte je

[Ant 3]
Když večeřeli * vzal Ježíš chléb, dobrořečil, a lámal, a dal svým učedníkům.

[Special Completorium]
!Special Completorium
_
$Confiteor
$Misereatur
$Indulgentiam

&psalm(4)

(rubrica tridentina) &psalm(30,1,6)

&psalm(90)

&psalm(133)

&psalm(233)

v. Christ became obedient for us unto death.
!in secret
$Pater noster
!lower voice
_
&psalm(50)
(sed rubrica 1955 aut rubrica 1960 aut rubrica monastica nisi rubrica cisterciensis omittitur)
@:Oratio Matutinum
(sed rubrica 1955 aut rubrica 1960 loco horum versuum dicuntur)
v. Navštiv, Pane, prosíme tě, tento příbytek, a veškeré úklady nepřítele od něj daleko odežeň; Tvoji svatí Andělé nechť se v něm zabydlí, aby nás v míru zachovali; a tvé požehnání ať s nám zůstává navždy.
!Dokončí se potichu.
$Per Dominum
