[Rank]
soboty ve čtvrtém týdnu doby Svatopostní;;Feria major;;2

[Lectio1]
Continuation of the Holy Gospel according to John
!John 8:12-20
At that time, Jesus spoke to the multitude of Jews saying: I am the light of the world: he that followeth me, walketh not in darkness, but shall have the light of life. And so on.
_
Homily on this passage by St. Augustine, Bishop (of Hippo.)
!34th Tract on John
I take it that these words of the Lord: “I am the Light of the world” are sufficiently clear to all men who have eyes which see that Light. At the same time, such men as have no eyes except those which are in their bodies, are surprised to find our Lord Jesus Christ saying, “I am the Light of the world”. And that we might not want somebody to say, “Is our Lord Jesus Christ, then, the same sun that riseth and setteth every day?” There have actually been heretics who did say it. The Manicheans believed that that sun which we see with our bodily eyes, and to see which is plain and common to beasts as well as men, was the Lord Christ.

[Lectio2]
But the right faith of the Catholic Church damneth such comment, and recogniseth in it a doctrine of devils. And as it is her practice not only to brand errors by the difference of her own Creed, but also to remove them, if possible, by dint of argument, let us take up arms against this falsehood, which hath from the very beginning been the object of the curse of the Holy Church. God forbid that we should believe that our Lord Jesus Christ is this sun whose apparent movement is to rise every day in the East, and set every day in the West; which when we see no more, night cometh over us; and whose rays are sometimes intercepted by clouds and which hath some law of motion of its own whereby it describeth an orbit. The planet is not the same thing as our Lord Jesus Christ. Our Lord Jesus Christ is not that created sun, but He by Whom that sun was created; for all things were made by Him, and without Him was not anything made that was made. (John i. 30)

[Lectio3]
He is therefore the Light by Whom the material light was made. Him may we love, Him may we long to know, Him may we thirst after; to Him may His own beams one day lead us, and in Him may we so live that we shall never die! For He, even He, and none other, He is that Light, of Whom the Prophet that was given of old time sang in the Psalms, when he said: “For with thee is the fountain of life, and in thy Light shall we see light.” (Ps. xxxv. 10.) Remember ye likewise what the word of God's ancient saints saith of such Light: “O Lord, Thou preservest man and beast! How excellent is thy loving-kindness, O God!” (7, 8.)

[Ant 2]
Kdo mě následuje, * nekráčí v temnotách; ale bude mít světlo života, praví Pán.

[Ant 2] (rubrica cisterciensis)
Já jsem * světlo světa; kdo mě následuje, nebude kráčet v temnotách, ale bude mít světlo života, praví Pán.

[Oratio 2]
Budiž, Pane, prosíme, skrze tvou milost plodný pocit naší oddanosti; neboť tehdy nám prospějí podstoupené posty, pokud se zalíbí tvé laskavosti.
$Per Dominum

[Ant 3]
Já to jsem, * kdo vydává svědectví o sobě samém; a o mě vydává svědectví ten, které mě poslal, Otec. 

[Oratio 3]
Prosíme, všemohoucí Bože, shlédni milostivě na svou rodinu, aby tvojí štědrostí bylo vedeno její tělo a tvou ochranou střežena její duše.  
$Per Dominum
