[Lectio1]
From the Prophet Ezechiel
!Ezek  19:1-7
1  Moreover take thou up a lamentation for the princes of Israel,
2  And say: Why did thy mother the lioness lie down among the lions, and bring up her whelps in the midst of young lions?
3  And she brought out one of her whelps, and he became a lion: and he learned to catch the prey, and to devour men.
4  And the nations heard of him, and took him, but not without receiving wounds: and they brought him in chains into the land of Egypt.
5  But she seeing herself weakened, and that her hope was lost, took one of her young lions, and set him up for a lion.
6  And he went up and down among the lions, and became a lion: and he learned to catch the prey, and to devour men.
7  He learned to make widows, and to lay waste their cities: and the land became desolate, and the fulness thereof by the noise of his roaring.

[Responsory1]
@TemporaM/111-0:Responsory7

[Lectio2]
!Ezek 19:8-11
8  And the nations Game together against him on every side out of the provinces, and they spread their net over him, in their wounds he was taken.
9  And they put him into a cage, they brought him in chains to the king of Babylon: and they cast him into prison, that his voice should no more be heard upon the mountains of Israel.
10  thy mother is like a vine in thy blood planted by the water: her fruit and her branches have grown out of many waters.
11  And she hath strong rods to make sceptres for them that bear rule, and her stature was exalted among the branches: and she saw her height in the multitude of her branches.

[Responsory2]
@TemporaM/111-1:Responsory2

[Lectio3]
!Ezek 8:12-14
12  And he add to me: Surely thou seest. O son of man, what the ancients of the house of Israel do in the dark, every one in private in his chamber: for they say: The Lord seeth us not, the Lord hath forsaken the earth.
13  And he said to me: If thou turn thee again, thou shalt see greater abominations which these commit.
14  And he brought me in by the door of the gate of the Lord's house, which looked to the north: and behold women sat there mourning for Adonis.

[Responsory3]
@TemporaM/111-1:Responsory3
