[Officium]
sv. Gabriela Archanděla

[Introitus]
!Ps 102:20
v. Bless the Lord, all you His Angels, you mighty in strength, who do His bidding, obeying His spoken word. (Alleluia, alleluia.)
!Ps 102:1
Bless the Lord, O my soul; and, all my being, bless His holy name.
&Gloria
v. Bless the Lord, all you His Angels, you mighty in strength, who do His bidding, obeying His spoken word. (Alleluia, alleluia.)

[Oratio]
Bože, jenž jsi skrze svého Archanděla Gabriela zvěstoval přesvaté Panně Spasitele světa; dej, abychom jej čistou myslí počali, i s horlivým zaujetím napodobovali.
$Qui vivis

[Lectio]
Lesson from the book of Daniel
!Dan 9:21-26.
In those days, behold, Gabriel, the one whom I had seen before in vision, came to me in rapid flight at the time of the evening sacrifice. He instructed me in these words: Daniel, I have now come to give you understanding. When you began your petition, an answer was given which I have come to announce, because you are beloved. Therefore, mark the answer and understand the vision. ‘Seventy weeks are decreed for your people and for your holy city: then transgression will stop and sin will end, guilt will be expiated, everlasting justice will be introduced, vision and prophecy ratified, and a Most Holy will be anointed. Know and understand this: from the utterance of the word that Jerusalem was to be rebuilt until one who is anointed and a leader, there shall be seven weeks. During sixty-two weeks it shall be rebuilt, with streets and trenches, in time of affliction. After the sixty-two weeks an anointed shall be cut down when he does not possess the city; and the people of a leader who will come shall destroy the sanctuary. Then the end shall come like a torrent; until the end there shall be war, the desolation that is decreed.’

[GradualeP]
Alleluia, alleluia.
V. Ps 103:4 You make the winds Your Angels, and flaming fire Your ministers. Alleluia.
V. Luke 1:28 Hail, Mary, full of grace, the Lord is with you; blessed are you among women. Alleluia.

[Tractus]
!Ps 102:20, 1
Bless the Lord, all you His Angels, you mighty in strength, who do His bidding.
V. Bless the Lord, O my soul; and, all my being, bless His holy name.
!Luke 1:28, 42, 31, 35
Hail, Mary, full of grace, the Lord is with you.
V. Blessed are you among women and blessed is the fruit of your womb.
V. Behold, you shall conceive and shall bring forth a Son, and you shall call His name Emmanuel.
V. The Holy Spirit shall come upon you and the power of the Most High shall over-shadow you.
V. And therefore the Holy One to be born shall be called the Son of God. During

[Evangelium]
Pokračování + svatého Evangelia podle Lukáše
!Lukáš 1:26-38.
Za onoho času byl Anděl Gabriel poslán od Boha do galilejského města, které se jmenuje Nazaret, k panně zasnoubené s mužem jménem Josef z Davidova rodu a ta panna se jmenovala Maria. Anděl k ní vešel a řekl: „Buď zdráva, milostiplná! Pán s tebou!“ Když to slyšela, ulekla se a uvažovala, co má ten pozdrav znamenat. Anděl jí řekl: „Neboj se, Maria, neboť jsi nalezla milost u Boha. Počneš a porodíš syna a dáš mu jméno Ježíš. Bude veliký a bude nazván Synem Nejvyššího. Pán Bůh mu dá trůn jeho předka Davida, bude kralovat nad Jakubovým rodem navěky a jeho království nebude mít konce.“ Maria řekla Andělovi: „Jak se to stane? Vždyť muže nepoznávám!“ Anděl jí odpověděl: „Duch svatý sestoupí na tebe a moc Nejvyššího tě zastíní! Proto také dítě bude nazváno svaté, Syn Boží. I tvoje příbuzná Alžběta počala ve svém stáří syna a je už v šestém měsíci, ačkoli byla považována za neplodnou. Vždyť u Boha není nic nemožného.“ Maria řekla: „Jsem služebnice Páně: ať se mi stane podle tvého slova!“ A Anděl od ní odešel.

[Offertorium]
!Apoc 8:3-4.
Stál Anděl podél chrámového oltáře, měl zlatou kadidelnici ve své ruce, a bylo mu dáno mnoho kadidla, a vystupoval vonný kouř před tvář Hospodinovu.

[Secreta]
May this gift from us, Your servants, and the prayer of the blessed Archangel Gabriel be acceptable in Your sight, O Lord, so that he whom we honor on earth may plead our cause with You in heaven.
$Per Dominum

[Communio]
!Dan 3:58
All you Angels of the Lord, bless the Lord: sing a hymn, and exalt Him above all forever.

[Postcommunio]
O God, our Lord, having received the sacrament of Your Body and Blood, we ask of Your mercy that, as Your incarnation was made known to us by the message of Gabriel, so by his help we may reap the benefits of that same incarnation.
$Qui vivis
