[Officium]
Narození Jana Křtitele

[Introitus]
!Isa 49:1-2
v. From my mother’s womb the Lord called me by my name, and made of me a sharp-edged sword; He concealed me in the shadow of His arm, and made me a polished arrow.
!Ps 91:2
It is good to give thanks to the Lord, to sing praise to Your name, Most High.
&Gloria
v. From my mother’s womb the Lord called me by my name, and made of me a sharp-edged sword; He concealed me in the shadow of His arm, and made me a polished arrow.

[Oratio]
O God, Who made this a day most worthy of our celebration because of blessed John; grant Your people the grace of spiritual joys and direct the minds of all the faithful into the path of eternal salvation.
$Per Dominum

[Lectio]
Lesson from the book of Isaias
!Isa 49:1-3, 5-7.
Hear me, O coastlands, listen, O distant peoples. The Lord called me from birth, from my mother’s womb He gave me my name. He made of me a sharp-edged sword and concealed me in the shadow of His arm. He made me a polished arrow, in His quiver He hid me. You are My servant, He said to me, Israel, through whom I show My glory. And now says the Lord Who formed me as His servant from the womb, I will make you a light to the nations, that My salvation may reach to the ends of the earth. When kings shall see you, they shall stand up, and princes shall prostrate themselves because of the Lord, the Holy One of Israel Who has chosen you.

[Graduale]
!Jer 1:5, 9
Before I formed you in the womb, I knew you; and before you were born, I dedicated you.
V. The Lord put forth His hand, and touched my mouth, and said to me. Alleluia, alleluia.
!Luke 1:76
V. You, child, shall be called the prophet of the Most High; you shall go before the Lord to prepare His ways. Alleluia.

[Evangelium]
Pokračování + svatého Evangelia podle Lukáše
!Lukáš 1:57-68
Alžbětě se naplnil čas a přišla její hodina: narodil se jí syn. Když její sousedé a příbuzní uslyšeli, že jí Pán prokázal velikou milost, radovali se s ní. Osmého dne přišli obřezat dítě a chtěli mu dát po jeho otci jméno Zachariáš. Jeho matka na to řekla: „Ne, ale bude se jmenovat Jan!“ Namítli jí: „Tak se nikdo z tvého příbuzenstva nejmenuje.“ Posunky naznačovali jeho otci, jaké by mu chtěl dát jméno. On si vyžádal tabulku a napsal: „Jeho jméno je Jan.“ Všichni se tomu podivili. Ihned se mu uvolnila ústa i jazyk a on mluvil a chválil Boha. Všech jejich sousedů se zmocnila bázeň a po celém judském pohoří se mluvilo o všech těch událostech. Všichni, kdo to uslyšeli, uvažovali o tom v srdci a ptali se: „Co asi z toho dítěte bude? Vždyť ruka Páně byla s ním!“ Janův otec Zachariáš byl naplněn Duchem svatým a pronesl tato prorocká slova: „Pochválen buď Hospodin, Bůh Israele, neboť navštívil a vykoupil svůj lid!

[Offertorium]
!Ps 91:13
The just man shall flourish like the palm tree; like a cedar of Lebanon shall he grow.

[Secreta]
We heap Your altar with gifts, O Lord, celebrating the birth of him who announced the coming of the Saviour of the world, our Lord Jesus Christ, Your Son, and made His presence known. 
$Qui tecum

[Communio]
!Luke 1:76
You, child, shall be called the prophet of the Most High; for you shall go before the face of the Lord to prepare His ways.

[Postcommunio]
May Your Church, O God, rejoice at the birth of blessed John the Baptist, through whom she knew the author of her own rebirth, Your Son, our Lord Jesus Christ. 
$Qui tecum
