[Rank]
Pretiosissimi Sanguinis Domini Nostri Jesu Christi;;Duplex I classis;;6;;

[Rule]
Gloria
Credo
Prefatio=Quad5;

[Introitus]
!Apoc 5:9-10
v. You have redeemed us, O Lord, with Your Blood, out of every tribe and tongue and people and nation, and have made us for our God a kingdom.
!Ps 88:2
The favors of the Lord I will sing forever; through all generations my mouth shall proclaim Your faithfulness.
&Gloria
v. You have redeemed us, O Lord, with Your Blood, out of every tribe and tongue and people and nation, and have made us for our God a kingdom.

[Oratio]
Almighty, eternal God, Who made Your only-begotten Son the Redeemer of the world, and willed to be reconciled by His Blood, grant us, we beseech You, so to worship in this sacred rite the price of our salvation, and to be so protected by its power against the evils of the present life on earth, that we may enjoy its everlasting fruit in heaven.
$Per eundem

[Graduale]
!1 John 5:6-8
This is He Who came in water and in blood, Jesus Christ; not in the water only, but in the water and in the blood.
V. There are three that bear witness in heaven: the Father, the Word, and the Holy Spirit; and these three are one. And there are three that bear witness on earth: the Spirit, the water, and the blood; and these three are one. Alleluia, alleluia.
!1 John 5:9
V. If we receive the testimony of men, the testimony of God is greater. Alleluia.

[Evangelium]
Pokračování + svatého Evangelia podle Jana
!John 19:30-35
Za onoho času, když Ježíš přijal ocet, řekl: „Dokonáno je!“ Pak sklonil hlavu a skonal. Protože byl den příprav, takže mrtvá těla nesměla zůstat na kříži přes sobotu ‒ tu sobotu totiž byl velký svátek ‒ požádali židé Piláta, aby byly ukřižovaným přeraženy nohy a aby byli sňati. Přišli tedy vojáci a přerazili kosti prvnímu i druhému, kteří s ním byli ukřižováni. Když však přišli k Ježíšovi, viděli, že už je mrtvý. Proto mu kosti nepřerazili, ale jeden z vojáků mu kopím probodl bok a hned vyšla krev a voda. Ten, který to viděl, vydává o tom svědectví a jeho svědectví je pravdivé. On ví, že mluví pravdu, abyste i vy věřili.

[Offertorium]
!1 Cor. 10:16
The Cup of blessing that we bless, is it not the sharing of the Blood of Christ? And the Bread that we break, is it not the partaking of the Body of the Lord? ~(Alleluia.)

[Secreta]
Through this divine rite, we beseech You, may we draw near to Jesus, the mediator of the new covenant, and renew upon Your altar, O Lord of hosts, the sprinkling of blood more eloquent than that of Abel.
$Per eundem

[Communio]
!Heb 9:28
Christ was offered once to take away the sins of many; the second time with no part in sin He will appear unto the salvation of those who await Him. (Alleluia.)

[Postcommunio]
Admitted to the sacred banquet, O Lord, we have drawn water in joy from the Saviour’s fountain; may His Blood, we beseech You, become for us a fountain of water springing up unto life everlasting.
$Qui vivis
