[Name]
Commune Martyrum Tempore Paschali

[Rule]
Psalmi Dominica
Antiphonas horas
Psalm5 Vespera=116
Psalm5 Vespera3=115

[Ant Vespera]
Your saints O Lord* flourish like lilies, alleluia: and like the smell of balsam are before you, alleluia;;109
In the heavenly kingdom is the habitatio of the saints, alleluia: and they rest in the eternity, alleluia;;110
Protected by veil * your saints turn to you O Lord, alleluia, alleluia;;111
Spirits and souls * of the just, say hymns to our Lord, alleluia, alleluia;;112
The just shine * like the, the sun at the face of God, alleluia;;116

[Capitulum Vespera]
!Wis 5:1
v. Akkor az igaz teljes biztonsággal áll szemben azokkal, akik sanyargatták, és lebecsülték a fáradozását.
$Deo gratias

[Hymnus Vespera]
@Commune/C2:Hymnus Vespera

[Versum 1]
V. Saints and just, rejoice in the Lord, alleluia.
R. The Lord had chosen you for his inhearitance, alleluia.

[Ant 1]
Eternal light * will shine over your saints O Lord, * And the eternity of the times, alleluia

[Oratio]
Mercyfully consider our weakness, O Almighty God, and whereas by the burden of our sins we are sore let N. your Martyr be mercifully pleased to deliver us from all things which may hurt our bodies, and from all evil thoughts which may defile our souls
$Per Dominum

[Invit]
Örvendjenek a szentek az Úrban. * Alleluia.

[Hymnus Matutinum]
@Commune/C2:Hymnus Vespera

[Ant Matutinum]
Then shall the just stand * with great constancy against those that have afflicted them, alleluia;;1
;;2
;;3
V. Saints and just, rejoice in the Lord, alleluia.
R. The Lord had chosen you for his inhearitance, alleluia.
Ecce * quomodo computati sunt inter filios Dei, et inter sanctos sors illorum est, alleluia;;4
;;5
;;6
V. Eternal light will shine over your saints O Lord, alleluia
R. And the eternity of the times, alleluia, alleluia
Eternal light * will shine over your saints O Lord and the eternity of the times, alleluia;;10
;;14
;;20
V. Everlasting joy shall be upon their heads, alleluia
R. They shall obtain joy and gladness, alleluia

[Lectio1]
Olvasmány az Apostolok Cselekedeibõl
!Acts 20:17-24
17 Milétuszból üzent Efezusba, és magához kérette az egyház presbitereit.
18 Amikor megérkeztek, így szólt hozzájuk: "Tudjátok, hogy Ázsiába jövetelem elsõ napjától kezdve minden idõmet köztetek töltöttem,
19 és szolgáltam az Úrnak, teljes alázatosságban, mindenfelõl szorongattatva, könnyek és megpróbáltatások közepette is, amik a zsidók áskálódásai folytán jutottak osztályrészemül.
20 Nem tagadtam meg tõletek semmit, ami javatokra szolgálhatott: prédikáltam nektek és tanítottalak benneteket, nyilvánosan és magánházaknál.
21 Zsidóknak és görögöknek egyaránt hirdettem, hogy térjenek meg az Istenhez, és higgyenek Urunkban, Jézusban.
22 Most Jeruzsálembe megyek. Nem tudom, mi lesz ott velem,
23 csak azt adta tudtomra a Szentlélek városról városra, hogy bilincs és megpróbáltatás vár rám.
24 De szóra sem tartom érdemesnek életemet, csakhogy végigfussam pályámat, és teljesítsem a feladatot, amelyet Urunk Jézus bízott rám, vagyis hogy tanúságot tegyek az Isten kegyelmét hirdetõ evangéliumról.

[Responsory1]
R. Blessed is the man that feareth the Lord, alleluia
* He shall delight exceedingly in his commandments, alleluia, alleluia, alleluia.
V. Glory and wealth shall be in his house: and his justice remaineth for ever and ever.
R. He shall delight exceedingly in his commandments, alleluia, alleluia, alleluia.

[Lectio2]
Az Apostolok Cselekedeteibõl
!Acts 20:25-31
25 És tudom azt is, hogy közületek, akik között hirdettem az Isten országát, nem lát többé senki.
26 Ezért most ünnepélyesen kijelentem: nem szárad rajtam senkinek a vére.
27 Mert nem riadtam vissza semmitõl, hogy az Isten akaratát teljes egészében fel ne tárjam elõttetek.
28 Vigyázzatok magatokra és az egész nyájra. Azért rendelt benneteket a Szentlélek az élére elöljáróul, hogy igazgassátok az Isten egyházát, amelyet a tulajdon vére árán szerzett meg magának.
29 Tudom, hogy ha eltávozom, ragadozó farkasok törnek rátok, s nem kímélik a nyájat.
30 Közületek is akadnak majd olyanok, akik rajta lesznek, hogy álnok szóval maguk mellé állítsák a tanítványokat.
31 Ezért legyetek éberek, és véssétek jól emlékezetetekbe, hogy három éven át éjjel-nappal szünet nélkül, könnyek között figyelmeztettelek benneteket.

[Responsory2]
R. Your sorrow, alleluia
* Shall be turned into joy, alleluia
V. the world shall rejoice: and you shall be made sorrowful, but your sorrow
R. Shall be turned into joy, alleluia

[Lectio3]
!Acts 20:32-38
32 Most pedig az Istennek és kegyelme szavának ajánllak benneteket. Neki hatalma van rá, hogy fölépítse mûvét, és megadja nektek az összes szenttel közös örökséget.
33 Senki ezüstjét, aranyát vagy ruháját nem kívántam.
34 Jól tudjátok, hogy amire magamnak és társaimnak szükségünk volt, a kezem munkájával szereztem meg.
35 Minden tekintetben példát adtam nektek, hogyan kell dolgozni, s a gyengéknek támaszukra lenni, Urunk Jézus szavaira emlékezve: Nagyobb boldogság adni, mint kapni."
36 Szavai befejeztével letérdelt, és imádkozott velük.
37 Nagy sírásban törtek ki mindnyájan, Pál nyakába borultak és összecsókolták.
38 Leginkább az a mondása fájt nekik, hogy nem látják többé viszont. Aztán kikísérték a hajóhoz.

[Responsory3]
R. Precious in the sight of the Lord, alleluia
* Is the death of his saints, alleluia
V. The Lord is nigh unto them that are of a contrite heart: and he will save the humble of spirit.
R. Is the death of his saints, alleluia
&Gloria
R. Is the death of his saints, alleluia

[Lectio4]
Darly beloved brethren, it is very meet and right that after the gladness of Easter, which we have celebrated in the Church, we should mingle our own joy with the joy of the holy Martyrs yea, that we should tell of the glory of the Lord's rising again, to them that have been made partakers of the Lord's sufferings. It truly must needs be that they which have been partakers of His sufferings, should be also of His joy. For thus saith the blessed Apostle " As ye are partakers of the sufferings, so shall ye be also of the consolation." (2~
Cor. i. 7.) And again " If we suffer, we shall also reign with Him." (2 Tim. ii. 12.) He, therefore, that endureth sorrow for Christ, must needs also have glory with Christ.

[Responsory4]
R. The everlasting light shall shine upon thy Saints, O Lord.
* Even unto everlasting. Alleluia.
V. Everlasting joy upon their heads they shall obtain joy and gladness.
R. Even unto everlasting. Alleluia.

[Lectio5]
I say again, let us tell to the holy Martyrs what the grace of the Lord's Passover is let us tell them that, even as He hath opened the bars of His own grave, even so shall their graves also be opened let us tell them that, even as in His dead Body the Veins grew warm and quick again, even so shall their limbs,~
that now are cold, flush with the heat of an eternal vigour. That power which brought again our Lord from the dead will bring His Martyrs too. For as they have followed Him in His sufferings, so shall they follow Him also in His newness of life. It is written in the Psalms " Thou hast shown Me the path of~
life" (xv. 12.) This is said of the Resurrection in the Person of the Saviour, as of Him Who, after that He died, came up again from hell, and began to have that path of life which was not known before.

[Responsory5]
R. God will comfort Alleluia
* His servants. Alleluia, Alleluia.
V. The Lord will judge His people, and will comfort
R. His servants. Alleluia, Alleluia.

[Lectio6]
Bfore that Christ came, that path of life was not known, which none had risen from the dead to tread. But, since the Lord hath risen, it is known, and many have trodden it after the Lord. Touching them, the holy Evangelist sarin:'" Many bodies of the saints which slept arose with Him, and went into the holy city." (Matth. xxvii. 52, 53.) 4 Wherefore, when the Lord riseth again and saith " Thou hast shown Me the path of life," we also can' now say to Him "Thou hast shown us the path of life." For He hath shown us the path of life, Who hath shown us the way that leadeth unto life. He hath shown me the path of life, Who hath taught me faith, mercy, righteousness, and chastity for these are the ways that lead unto life eternal.

[Responsory6]
R. Come forth, O ye daughters of Jerusalem, and behold the Martyrs with the crowns wherewith the Lord crowned them
* In the day of His feasting, and of His gladness. Alleluia.
V. For He hath strengthtened the bars of thy gates He hath blessed thy children within thee.
R. In the day of His feasting, and of His gladness. Alleluia.
&Gloria
R. In the day of His feasting, and of His gladness. Alleluia.

[Lectio7]
Evangélium szent János Apostol kõnyvébõl
!John 15:1-7
1 Én vagyok az igazi szõlõtõ, s Atyám a szõlõmûves. És így tovább.
_
Homily by St Austin, Bishop of Hippo.
!Tract 80, on John.
Dearly beloved brethren, this passage of the Gospel, wherein the Lord saith that He is the vine, and that His disciples are the branches, is to be taken in that sense wherein it is also said, that He is the Head of the Church, and that we are the members of Him Who is the Mediator between God and men, the man Christ Jesus. The vine and his branches are of one and the same nature. Therefore, seeing that He was God, of which nature we are not, He was made man, to the end that He might have in Himself this vine, that is, the manhood, whereof we men can be made branches.

[Responsory7]
R. I am the true vine, ye are the branches.
* He that abideth in Me, and I in him, the same bringeth forth much fruit. Alleluia, Alleluia.
V. As the Father hath loved me, so have I loved you.
R. He that abideth in Me, and I in him, the same bringeth forth much fruit. Alleluia, Alleluia.

[Responsory7c]
R. Tristitia vestra, alleluia,
* Convertetur in gaudium, alleluia, alleluia.
V. Mundus autem gaudebit, vos vero contristabimini, sed tristitia vestra.
R. Convertetur in gaudium, alleluia, alleluia.

[Lectio8]
Saith He "I am the true vine"? As touching this word "true," hath He not here regard to that other parable of a vine, the like figure whereto He doth here apply to Himself? Here is He called a vine, not plainly, but in parable, as also He is called elsewhere a sheep, a lamb, a lion, a rock, a corner-stone, and other things of the like kind. But these things are in themselves that which they seem to be, albeit He is called by their names, not plainly, but in a parable, and herein are they different from that vine, whereof in this place He taketh on Him the name. For when He saith "I am the true vine," doth He not make distinction between Himself, and that which indeed seemed to be a vine, but to which it is said " How art thou turned into the degenerate plant of a strange vine unto Me?" For by what title shall that plant be called other than a false vine, whereto they looked that she should bring forth grapes, and she brought forth thorns

[Responsory8]
R. Her Nazarites are become pure, Alleluia they reflect the glory of God, Alleluia.
* They are whiter than milk. Alleluia, Alleluia.
V. They are purer than snow, they are whiter than milk, they are more ruddy in body than coral, their polishing is of sapphire.
R. They are whiter than milk. Alleluia, Alleluia.
&Gloria
R. They are whiter than milk. Alleluia, Alleluia.

[Lectio9]
Jesus saith " I am the true vine, and My Father is the husbandman." Is the vine one with the husbandman These words then are to be taken in that sense wherein He also saith " My Father is greater than I." But again, in regard to those words " I and the Father are one," and again " and My Father is the husbandman," we understand that They are not the vine and the husbandman, after the manner of a vine, and the husbandman that from without doth care for and keep it, but after the manner of a vine and Him That from within doth make it to bring forth fruit. For "neither is he that planteth anything, neither he that watereth but God that giveth the increase." But Christ is God, for "the Word was God." Therefore He and the Father are one and, albeit "the Word was made flesh," which, before, He was not, He ceased not to be still That Which He was.
&teDeum

[Ant Laudes]
Your saints O Lord * flourish like lilies, alleluia: and like the smell of balsam are before you, alleluia
In the heavenly kingdom is the habitatio of the saints, alleluia: and they rest in the eternity, alleluia
Protected by veil * your saints turn to you O Lord, alleluia, alleluia.
Spirits and souls * of the just, say hymns to our Lord, alleluia, alleluia.
The just shine * like the, the sun at the face of God, alleluia.

[Capitulum Laudes]
!Wis 5:1
v. Akkor az igaz teljes biztonsággal áll szemben azokkal, akik sanyargatták, és lebecsülték a fáradozását.
$Deo gratias

[Hymnus Laudes]
@Commune/C2:Hymnus Laudes

[Versum 2]
V. Precious in the sight of the Lord, alleluia
R. Is the death of his saints, alleluia

[Ant 2]
Jerusálem leányai * jöjjetek és lássátok a megkoronázott vértanúkat; az Úr koronázta meg õket az öröm ünnepén, alleluia, alleluia

[Lectio Prima]
!Rom 8:28
v. Tudjuk azt is, hogy akik Istent szeretik, azoknak minden javukra válik, hiszen õ saját elhatározásából választotta ki õket.

[Capitulum Tertia]
!Wis 5:1
v. Akkor az igaz teljes biztonsággal áll szemben azokkal, akik sanyargatták, és lebecsülték a fáradozását.
$Deo gratias

[Responsory Tertia]
R.br. Saints and just, rejoice in the Lord Alleluia, alleluia.
R. Saints and just, rejoice in the Lord Alleluia, alleluia.
V. The Lord had chosen you for his inhearitance
R. Alleluia, alleluia.
&Gloria
R. The Lord had chosen you for his inhearitance Alleluia, alleluia.
_
V. Eternal light will shine over your saints O Lord, alleluia
R. And the eternity of the times, alleluia, alleluia

[Capitulum Sexta]
!Sap. 5.5
v. Behold how they are numbered among the children of God, and their lot is among the saints.
$Deo gratias

[Responsory Sexta]
R.br. Eternal light will shine over your saints O Lord, alleluia, alleluia
R. Eternal light will shine over your saints O Lord, alleluia, allleuja
V. And the eternity of the times
R. Alleluia, alleluia
&Gloria
R. Eternal light will shine over your saints O Lord, Alleluia, alleluia.
_
V. Everlasting joy shall be upon their heads, alleluia
R. They shall obtain joy and gladness, alleluia

[Capitulum Nona]
!Rom 8:28
v. Tudjuk azt is, hogy akik Istent szeretik, azoknak minden javukra válik, hiszen õ saját elhatározásából választotta ki õket.
$Deo gratias

[Responsory Nona]
R.br. Everlasting joy shall be upon their heads, alleluia, alleluia
R. Everlasting joy shall be upon their heads, alleluia, alleluia
V. They shall obtain joy and gladness
R. Alleluia, alleluia
&Gloria
R. Everlasting joy shall be upon their heads, alleluia, alleluia
_
V. Precious in the sight of the Lord, alleluia
R. Is the death of his saints, alleluia

[Versum 3]
V. Precious in the sight of the Lord, alleluia
R. Is the death of his saints, alleluia

[Ant 3]
Saints and just * rejoice in the Lord, alleluia, the Lord had chosen you for his inhearitance, alleluia.

[Lectio41]
From the Epistle of St Cyprian, Bishop [of Carthage,] and himself Martyr, to the Martyrs and Confessors.
!Bh. ii. ep. 6.
How shall I praise you, Martyrs so brilliantly victorious ? Can the voice of man's praise add anything to the glory of your manful heart and unshaken faithfulness ? Ye have borne all the hardness of the torment, and have attained unto the excellent height of glory : the tormentors have not worn you out, nay, ye rather have worn out the tormentors. When they that kill the body would give you no rest from suffering, ye suffered until ye gained the crown. And the torment waxing still more dread, waxed not to the casting down of your strong faith, but to the sooner sending God's men home to God.

[Responsory41]
R. Eternal light will shine over your saints O Lord
* And the eternity of the times, alleluia, alleluia
V. Everlasting joy shall be upon their heads, they shall obtain joy and gladness
R. And the eternity of the times, alleluia, alleluia

[Lectio51]
They that stood by looked in wonder at your heavenly conflict, that battle of God, that wrestling of spirit, that combat of Christ. There they saw His servants standing with voice unshaken, with spirit unbroken, strong in God's strength, naked indeed, as to the arms of this world, but clothed on with the armour of God, and equipped with the fiery weapons of faith. There they that were tormented stood braver than they that tormented them. Their bruised and mangled bodies overcame the instruments of cruelty that bruised and mangled them. The bloody stripes, so often laid on, could not beat down the impregnable castle of their faith, even when the covering of their bowels was broken, and that which was tormented in God's servants was no longer limbs but wounds. The blood that ran down, ran down to quench the rage of persecution, noble blood, that can put out the flames and fire of hell.

[Responsory51]
R. God will comfort Alleluia
* His servants. Alleluia, Alleluia.
V. The Lord will judge His people, and will comfort
R. His servants. Alleluia, Alleluia.

[Lectio61]
O what a spectacle was that in the eyes of the Lord! O how noble! O how mighty! O how precious in the sight of God were His soldiers' loyalty and faithfulness! Even as it is written in the Psalms, the Holy Ghost therein at once speaking to us and warning us :Precious in the sight of the Lord is the death of His Saints.; O what a precious death is his, who maketh purchase of life that can never die, at the price of his own blood, and seizeth on the crown, when courage hath no more left to meet ! O how joyful was Christ ! How gladly fought He in such servants as these,in these how gladly did He triumph, the Keeper of their faith,and, in the end, to them how gladly did He give that reward which no man knoweth saving he that receiveth it ! (Apoc. ii. 17.) He it was, Who was there when they fought, He it was, Who raised them up to be the champions and defenders of His holy Name, He, who gave them the strength, He-, Who nerved them. He, That by death hath once conquered for us, liveth now for ever to conquer in us.

[Responsory61]
R. Come forth, O ye daughters of Jerusalem, and behold the Martyrs with the crowns wherewith the Lord crowned them
* In the day of His feasting, and of His gladness. Alleluia.
V. For He hath strengthtened the bars of thy gates He hath blessed thy children within thee.
R. In the day of His feasting, and of His gladness. Alleluia.
&Gloria
R. In the day of His feasting, and of His gladness. Alleluia.

