[Name]
Commune apostolorum tempore Paschali

[Rule]
Psalmi Dominica
Antiphonas horas
Una Antiphona

[Ant Vespera]
Your saints O Lord * flourish like lilies, alleluia: and like the smell of balsam are before you, alleluia;;109
In the heavenly kingdom is the habitation of the saints, alleluia: and they rest in the eternity, alleluia;;110
Protected by veil * your saints turn to you O Lord, alleluia, alleluia;;111
Spirits and souls * of the just, sing hymns to our Lord, alleluia, alleluia;;112
The just shine * like the sun at the face of God, alleluia;;116

[Capitulum Vespera]
!Wis 5:1
v. Akkor az igaz teljes biztonsággal áll szemben azokkal, akik sanyargatták, és lebecsülték a fáradozását.
$Deo gratias

[Hymnus Vespera]
{:H-Tristeserantapostoli:}v. Búsultak az apostolok,
Mert Krisztus meghalt keserûn,
Gonosz szolgák mondtak reá
Istentelen ítéletet.
_
Igazmondó angyal szavát
Hallják a jámbor asszonyok:
A hivô nyájhoz már közel
Krisztus az öröm hírivel.
_
A rettegô apostolok
Elé viszik a drága hírt,
Ám útjukon ragyogva már
Elôttük Krisztus lába jár.
_
Galilea hegyeire
Sietnek az apostolok
S betelik vágyuk: boldogok
Jézus kegyes fényében ôk.
_
Hogy mindörökké megmaradj,
Húsvéti örömûl nekünk,
Mentsd meg a bûnhalál elôl,
Kiket az élet újra szült.
_
* Atyaistennek tisztelet
S Fiának, ki feltámadott
S a Vigasztalónak velük
Most és örök idôkön át.
Ámen.

[Versum 1]
V. Szentek és igazak örvendezzetek az Úrban, alleluia.
R. Isten a ti örörészetek, alleluia.

[Ant 1]
Örök világosság * világosítsa meg szentjeidet Uram, az örökkévalósag világossaga

[Invit]
Az Urat, az Apostolok királyát * Jöjjetek áldjuk. Alleluia.

[Hymnus Matutinum]
@Commune/C1p:Hymnus Vespera

[Ant Matutinum]
Then shall the just stand * with great constancy against those that have afflicted them, alleluia;;18
;;33
;;44
V. Saints and just, rejoice in the Lord, alleluia.
R. The Lord had chosen you for his inheritance, alleluia.
The sight whereof enticeth the fool to lust after it, and he loveth the lifeless figure of a dead image, alleluia;;46
;;60
;;63
V. Eternal light will shine over your saints O Lord
R. And the eternity of the times, alleluia.
Eternal light will shine over your saints O Lord, and the eternity of the times, alleluia;;74
;;96
;;98
V. Everlasting joy shall be upon their heads, alleluia
R. They shall obtain joy and gladness alleluia

[Lectio1]
Olvasmány szent Pál apostol Korintusiakhoz irott elsõ levelébõl
!1 Cor 4:1-5
1 Úgy tekintsenek minket az emberek, mint Krisztus szolgáit és Isten titkainak gondnokait.
2 A gondnokoktól természetesen egyet követelnek meg: hogy hûségesnek bizonyuljanak.
3 A magam részérõl nem törõdöm azzal, hogy ti vagy más emberi bíróság mint ítéltek felõlem, hiszen önmagam fölött sem ítélkezem.
4 Nem érzem ugyan magam semmiben sem bûnösnek, de ez még nem jelent megigazulást. Az Úr mond fölöttem ítéletet.
5 Ne ítélkezzetek hát idõnap elõtt, míg el nem jön az Úr. Õ majd megvilágítja a sötétség titkait, és földeríti a szívek szándékait. Akkor majd mindenki megkapja az elismerést az Istentõl.

[Responsory1]
R. Blessed is the man that feareth the Lord, alleluia
* He shall delight exceedingly in his commandments, alleluia, alleluia, alleluia.
V. Glory and wealth shall be in his house: and his justice remaineth for ever and ever.
R. He shall delight exceedingly in his commandments, alleluia, alleluia, alleluia.

[Lectio2]
!1 Cor 4:6-9
6 Ezeket, testvérek, miattatok alkalmaztam magamra és Apollóra, hogy rajtunk tanuljátok meg: Ne többet annál, ami írva van! Senki se kérkedjék az egyikkel a másik rovására!
7 Ki mond különbnek másoknál? Mid van, amit nem kaptál? Ha pedig kaptad, miért dicsekszel, mintha nem kaptad volna?
8 Lám, már jóllaktatok, már meggazdagodtatok, nélkülünk is uralomra jutottatok! Bárcsak uralomra jutottatok volna, hogy veletek uralkodhatnánk!
9 Úgy látom ugyanis, hogy Isten nekünk, apostoloknak az utolsó helyet jelölte ki, mint olyanoknak, akiket halálra szántak, hogy látványosságul szolgáljunk a világnak, az angyaloknak és az embereknek is.

[Responsory2]
R. Your sorrow, alleluia
* Shall be turned into joy, alleluia
V. the world shall rejoice: and you shall be made sorrowful, but your sorrow
R. Shall be turned into joy, alleluia

[Lectio3]
!1 Cor 4:10-15
10 Mi oktalanok vagyunk Krisztusért, ti okosak Krisztusban. Mi gyöngék vagyunk, ti erõsek. Titeket megbecsülnek, minket megvetnek.
11 Mindmáig éhezünk és szomjazunk, nincs ruhánk és verést szenvedünk.
12 Nincs otthonunk, és kezünk munkájával keressük kenyerünk. Ha átkoznak minket, áldást mondunk, ha üldöznek, türelemmel viseljük,
13 ha szidalmaznak, szelíden szólunk. Szinte salakja lettünk ennek a világnak, mindenkinek söpredéke mostanáig.
14 Nem azért írom ezeket, hogy megszégyenítselek, hanem mint kedves gyermekeimet intelek benneteket.
15 Ha számtalan tanítótok volna is Krisztusban, atyátok nincs sok. Az evangélium által én adtam nektek életet Krisztus Jézusban.

[Responsory3]
R. Precious in the sight of the Lord, alleluia
* Is the death of his saints, alleluia
V. The Lord is nigh unto them that are of a contrite heart: and he will save the humble of spirit.
R. Is the death of his saints, alleluia
&Gloria
R. Is the death of his saints, alleluia

[Lectio4]
From the Sermons of Pope St Gregory the Great
!Sermon 30 th on the Gospels.
It is written " By His Spirit the Lord hath garnished the heavens." Now the garniture of the heavens are the godly powers of preachers, and this garniture, what it is, Paul teacheth us thus " To one is given by the Spirit the word of wisdom, to another the word of knowledge by the same Spirit to another faith by the same Spirit to another the gifts of healing by the same Spirit, to another the working of miracles, to another prophecy, to another discerning of spirits, to another divers kinds of tongues, to another the interpretation of tongues. But all these worketh that one and the self-same Spirit, dividing to every man severally as He will.

[Responsory4]
R. Eternal light will shine over your saints O Lord
* And the eternity of the times, alleluia, alleluia
V. Everlasting joy shall be upon their heads, they shall obtain joy and gladness
R. And the eternity of the times, alleluia, alleluia

[Lectio5]
So much power then as have preachers, so much garniture have the heavens. Wherefore again it is written "By the word of the Lord were the heavens made."~
~(Ps. xxxii. 6.) For the Word of the Lord is the Son of the Father. But, to the end that all the Holy Trinity may be made manifest as the Maker of the heavens, (that is, of the Apostles,) it is straightway added touching God the Holy Ghost: u and all the host of them by the Breath of His mouth." Therefore the might of the same heavens is the might of the Spirit, for they had not braved the powers of this world, unless the strength of the Holy Ghost had comforted them. For we know what manner of men the Teachers of the Holy Church were before the coming of this Spirit and since He came we see in Whose strength they are made strong.

[Responsory5]
R. With great power did the Apostles
* Give testimony of the resurrection of Jesus Christ our Lord, alleluia, alleluia.
V. And they were all filled with the Holy Ghost: and they spoke the word of God with confidence.
R. Give testimony of the resurrection of Jesus Christ our Lord, alleluia, alleluia.

[Lectio6]
Verily if we ask of the damsel that kept the door, she will tell us what was the measure of weakness and of strength in that Shepherd of the Church nigh to whose most holy body we are now sitting, before that the Spirit came. He was so stricken by the words of one woman, that for fear of death, he denied Life. And we may well remember that Peter denied in captivity Him, Whom the thief confessed, even when He was lifted up upon the Cross. But let us hear what that craven was after that the Spirit came. When the rulers and elders were gathered together, the Apostles were beaten, and commanded not to speak at all nor teach in the name of Jesus. And Peter answered with great boldness, "We ought to obey God rather than men."

[Responsory6]
R. These are the young lambs, who were promised, they are just coming to the fountains.
* They are filled with glory, alleluia, alleluia.
V. in sight of the Lamb, clothed with white robes, and palms in their hands.
R. They are filled with glory, alleluia, alleluia.
&Gloria
R. They are filled with glory, alleluia, alleluia.

[Lectio7]
Evangélium szent Máté Apostol kõnyvébõl
!Matt 19:27-29
27 Akkor Péter vette át a szót: "Nézd, mi mindenünket elhagytuk, és követtünk téged. Mi lesz hát a jutalmunk?" És így tovább.
_
Homily by St Jerome, Priest (at Bethlehem.)
!Bk. iii. on Matth xix.
Peter was a fisherman, he was not rich, he earned his bread by his hand and skill, and nevertheless he is thus bold, and saith confidently "We have forsaken all." And because it suflficeth not to forsake only, he addeth that which to do is to be perfect: "and followed thee." "We have done that which Thou hast commanded us, what reward therefore wilt Thou give us?" "And Jesus said unto them Ámen I say unto you, that ye which have followed Me, in the regeneration, when the Son of Man shall sit in the throne of His glory, ye also shall sit upon twelve thrones, judging the twelve tribes of Israel." He said not, "Ye which have forsaken all," for this did even Crates the philosopher, and they which have set nothing by riches are many, but, "Ye which have followed Me." This did the Apostles, and this do believers do.

[Responsory7]
R. I am the vine: you the branches.
* He that abideth in me, and I in him, the same beareth much fruit alleluia, alleluia.
V. As the Father hath loved me, I also have loved you.
R. He that abideth in me, and I in him, the same beareth much fruit alleluia, alleluia.
&Gloria
R. He that abideth in me, and I in him, the same beareth much fruit alleluia, alleluia.

[Lectio8]
In the regeneration, when the * Son of Man shall sit in the throne of His glory,~
and when the dead shall rise again from corruption incorruptible, (i Cor. xv. 53,) ye also shall sit upon twelve thrones of judgment, condemning the twelve tribes of Israel, because, when ye believed in Me, they would not. (John iii. 18.) And "every one that hath forsaken houses, or brethren, or sisters, or father, or mother, or wife, or children, or lands, for My Name's sake, shall receive an hundredfold, and shall inherit everlasting life." This place agreeth well with that other where the Saviour saith "I came not to send peace, but a sword. For I am come to set a man at variance against his father, and the daughter against her mother, and the daughter-in-law against her motherin-law and a man's foes shall be they of his own household." (Matth. x. 34.) Every one, therefore, that hath set no store by affection, and riches, and the pleasures of the world, for Christ's faith's sake, and the preaching of the Gospel, shall receive an hundred-fold, and shall inherit everlasting life.

[Responsory8]
R. Her Nazarites are become pure, Alleluia: they reflect the glory of God, Alleluia.
* They are whiter than milk. Alleluia, Alleluia.
V. They are purer than snow, they are whiter than milk, they are more ruddy in body than coral, their polishing is of sapphire.
R. They are whiter than milk. Alleluia, Alleluia.
&Gloria
R. They are whiter than milk. Alleluia, Alleluia.

[Lectio9]
By reason of these words, "an hundredfold," some will have that there shall be a thousand /ears after the resurrection, whereinhey that have forsaken all things shall receive an hundredfold of whose things which they have forsaken, and shall inherit everlasting life. Such men consider not that cough in other things this were worthy, as touching wives it is unseemly for it becometh us not to think that he that hath forsaken one wife in this world, shall receive an hundred wives in that which is to come. But the meaning is this, that every one that for the Saviour's sake hath forsaken earthly things, shall receive spiritual things which things, being rightly weighed against earthly things, are as though an hundredfold were weighed against one.
&teDeum

[Ant Laudes]
Your saints O Lord * flourish like lilies, alleluia: and like the smell of balsam are before you, alleluia
In the heavenly kingdom * is the habitation of the saints, alleluia: and they rest in the eternity, alleluia
Protected by veil * your saints turn to you O Lord, alleluia, alleluia, alleluia.
Spirits and souls * of the just, sing hymns to our Lord, alleluia, alleluia.
The just shine * like the sun at the face of God, alleluia.

[Capitulum Laudes]
!Wis 5:1
v. Akkor az igaz teljes biztonsággal áll szemben azokkal, akik sanyargatták, és lebecsülték a fáradozását.
$Deo gratias

[Hymnus Laudes]
{:H-Paschalemundogaudium:}v. Földszerte húsvét örömét
Szépségesebb nap hirdeti:
Új fényben látják fényleni
Ma Jézust az Apostolok.
_
Krisztus testén a sebhelyek
Csillag módjára fénylenek.
Csodálják, hûséges tanúk,
És hangos szóval hirdetik.
_
Krisztus, király, jóságos Úr,
Vedd szíveinket birtokul.
Nyelvünk nevednek rója le
Köteles hálaénekét.
_
Hogy mindörökké megmaradj
Húsvéti örömül nekünk,
Mentsd meg a bûnhalál elôl,
Kiket az élet újraszült.
_
* Dicsôség teneked, Urunk,
Ki holtodból feltámadál,
Atyának s Szentléleknek is,
Most és örök idôkön át.
Ámen.

[Versum 2]
V. Értékes az Úr szemében, alleluia
R. Szentjei halála, alleluia

[Ant 2]
Jeruzsálem leányai * jöjjetek és nézzétek a vértanúk koronáját, amellyel az Úr megkoronázta õket. dicsõsége és öröme napján. alleluia, alleluia.

[Lectio Prima]
!Rom 8:28
v. Tudjuk azt is, hogy akik Istent szeretik, azoknak minden javukra válik, hiszen õ saját elhatározásából választotta ki õket.

[Capitulum Tertia]
!Wis 5:1
v. Akkor az igaz teljes biztonsággal áll szemben azokkal, akik sanyargatták, és lebecsülték a fáradozását.
$Deo gratias

[Responsory Tertia]
R.br. Szentek és igazak, örvendezzetek az Úrban, Alleluia, alleluia
R. Szentek és igazak, örvendezzetek az Úrban, Alleluia, alleluia.
V. Isten az örökrészetek
R. Alleluia, alleluia
&Gloria
R. Szentek és igazak, örvendezzetek az Úrban, Alleluia, alleluia.
_
V. Örök világosság világositsa meg szentjeidet Uram. Alleluia
R. Az örökkévalósag világossága. Alleluia

[Capitulum Sexta]
!Sap. 5.5
v. Behold how they are numbered among the children of God, and their lot is among the saints.
$Deo gratias

[Responsory Sexta]
R.br. Örök világosság világositsa meg szentjeidet Uram alleluia, alleluia
R. Örök világosság világositsa meg szentjeidet Uram alleluia, alleluia
V. Az örökkévalósag világossága
R. Alleluia, alleluia
&Gloria
R. Örök világosság világositsa meg szentjeidet Uram * Alleluia, alleluia.
_
V. Örök boldogság a koszorújuk, alleluia
R. Öröm és boldogság a részük, alleluia

[Capitulum Nona]
!Rom 8:28
v. Tudjuk azt is, hogy akik Istent szeretik, azoknak minden javukra válik, hiszen õ saját elhatározásából választotta ki õket.
$Deo gratias

[Responsory Nona]
R.br. Örök boldogság a koszorújuk, alleluia, alleluia
R. Örök boldogság a koszorújuk, alleluia, alleluia
V. Öröm és boldogság a részük
R. Alleluia, alleluia
&Gloria
R. Örök boldogság a koszorújuk, alleluia, alleluia
_
V. Értékes az Úr szemében, alleluia
R. Szentjei halála, alleluia

[Ant Vespera 3]
Your saints O Lord * flourish like lilies, alleluia: and like the smell of balsam are before you, alleluia;;109
In the heavenly kingdom is the habitation of the saints, alleluia: and they rest in the eternity, alleluia;;112
Protected by veil * your saints turn to you O Lord, alleluia, alleluia;;115
Spirits and souls * of the just, sing hymns to our Lord, alleluia, alleluia;;125
The just shine * like the sun at the face of God, alleluia;;138 

[Ant 3]
Szentek és igazak * örvendezzetek az Úrban, alleluia, Isten a ti örörészetek, alleluia.
