[Rank]
Apparitione S Michaelis Archangeli;;Duplex majus;;4;;

[Rule]
proprium
9 lectiones
Psalmi Dominica
Antiphonas horas
Una Antiphona
Psalm5 Vespera=116
Psalm5 Vespera3=137
Contract8
Quorum Festum

[Ant Vespera]
An Angel stood at the Altar * of the Temple, having a golden censer in his hand. (Alleluia.)
While as the Archangel Michael fought against the dragon, * I heard voices saying Salvation unto our God. (Alleluia.)
Michael Mine Archangel, * I have appointed thee for a prince over the ingathering of souls. (Alleluia.)
O ye Angels of the Lord, bless ye the Lord always. (Alleluia.)
O ye Angels and Archangels, * O ye Thrones and Dominions, O ye Principalities and Powers, O ye mighty Ones of heaven, praise ye the Lord from the heavens (Alleluia.)

[Capitulum Vespera]
!Rev 1:1-2
v. God gave unto Jesus Christ to show unto His servants the things which must shortly come to pass and He sent and signified it by His Angel unto His servant John who bare witness of the Word of God and of the testimony of Jesus Christ, of all the things which he saw.
$Deo gratias

[Hymnus Vespera]
O Jesu Life, spring of the soul!
The Father's power and glory bright!
thee with the Angels we extol;
From thee they draw their life and light.
_
thy thousand thousand hosts are spread
Embattled o'er the azure sky;
But Michael bears thy standard dread,
And lifts the mighty Cross on high.
_
He in that Sign the rebel power.
Did with their Dragon Prince expel;
And hurled them from the heaven.' high towers,
Down like a thunderbolt to hell.
_
Grant us, with Michael, still, O Lord,
Against the prince of pride to fight;
So may a crown be our reward,
Before the Lamb's pure throne of light.
_
To God the Father, with the Son
And Holy Paraclete, with thee,
As evermore hath been before,
Be glory through eternity.
Amen.

[Versum 1]
V. An Angel stood at the Altar of the Temple. (Alleluia.)
R. Having a golden censer in his hand. (Alleluia.)

[Ant 1]
While as John was gazing * upon the holy mystery, the Archangel Michael sounded his trumpet Forgive us, O Lord our God, Which openest the book, and loosest the seals thereof. (Alleluia.)

[Oratio]
O God, Who hast ordained and constituted the services of angels and men in a wonderful order, mercifully grant that as thy holy angels alway do thee service in heaven, so, by thy appointment, they may succour and defend us on earth.
$Per Dominum

[Invit]
The Lord, He is the King of the Archangels. * O come let us worship Him. (Alleluia.)

[Hymnus Matutinum]
@Sancti/05-08:Hymnus Vespera

[Ant Matutinum]
The sea was moved and the earth quaked, when the Archangel Michael descended from heaven. (Alleluia.);;8
;;10
;;14
V. An Angel stood at the Altar of the Temple. (Alleluia.)
R. Having a golden censer in his hand. (Alleluia.)
Archangel Michael, come to help God's people. (Alleluia.);;18
;;23
;;33
V. The smoke of the incense ascended up before the Lord. (Alleluia.)
R. Out of the Angel's hand. (Alleluia.)
The Angel Michael the Archangel, he is the messenger whom God sendeth to all the souls of the righteous. Alleluia, Alleluia;;95
;;96
;;102
V. Before the Angels will I sing praise unto thee, O my God. (Alleluia.)
R. I will worship toward thy holy Temple, and praise thy Name. (Alleluia.)

[Lectio1]
Lesson from the book of Daniel
!Dan 7:9-11
9 I beheld till thrones were placed, and the Ancient of days sat: his garment was white as snow, and the hair of his head like clean wool: his throne like flames of fire: the wheels of it like a burning fire.
10 A swift stream of fire issued forth from before him: thousands of thousands ministered to him, and ten thousand times a hundred thousand stood before him: the judgment sat, and the books were opened.
11 I beheld because of the voice of the great words which that horn spoke: and I saw that the beast was slain, and the body thereof was destroyed, and given to the fire to be burnt:

[Responsory1]
R. There was silence in heaven while the dragon fought against Michael the Archangel.
* I heard the voice of thousands of thousands, saying Salvation, and honour, and power unto God the Almighty. (Alleluia.)
V. Thousands of thousands ministered unto Him, and ten thousand times hundreds of thousands stood before Him.
R. I heard the voice of thousands of thousands, saying Salvation, and honour, and power unto God, the Almighty. (Alleluia.)

[Lectio2]
!Dan 10:4-8
4 And in the four and twentieth day of the first month I was by the great river which is the Tigris.
5 And I lifted up my eyes, and I saw: and behold a man clothed in linen, and his loins were girded with the finest gold:
6 And his body was like the chrysolite, and his face as the appearance of lightning, and his eyes as a burning lamp: and his arms, and all downward even to the feet, like in appearance to glittering brass: and the voice of his word like the voice of a multitude.
7 And I Daniel alone saw the vision: for the men that were with me saw it not: but an exceeding great terror fell upon them, and they fled away, and hid themselves.
8 And I being left alone saw this great vision: and there remained no strength in me, and the appearance of my countenance was changed in me, and I fainted away, and retained no strength.

[Responsory2]
R. An Angel stood at the Altar of the temple, having a golden censer in his hand and there was given unto him much incense
* And the smoke of the incense ascended up before the Lord, out of the Angel's hand. (Alleluia.)
V. Before the Angels will I sing praise unto thee; I will worship toward thy holy temple, and praise thy Name, O Lord.
R. And the smoke of the incense ascended up before the Lord, out of the Angel's hand. (Alleluia.)

[Lectio3]
!Dan 10:9-14
9 And I heard the voice of his words: and when I heard, I lay in a consternation, upon my face, and my face was close to the ground.
10 And behold a hand touched me, and lifted me up upon my knees, and upon the joints of my hands.
11 And he said to me: Daniel, thou man of desires, understand the words that I speak to thee, and stand upright: for I am sent now to thee. And when he had said this word to me, I stood trembling.
12 And he said to me: Fear not, Daniel: for from the first day that thou didst set thy heart to understand, to afflict thyself in the sight of thy God, thy words have been heard: and I am come for thy words.
13 But the prince of the kingdom of the Persians resisted me one and twenty days: and behold Michael, one of the chief princes, came to help me, and I remained there by the king of the Persians.
14 But I am come to teach thee what things shall befall thy people in the latter days, for as yet the vision is for days.

[Responsory3]
R. Before the Angels will I sing praise unto thee, and will worship toward thy holy temple
* And I will praise thy Name, O Lord. (Alleluia.)
V. For thy loving kindness, and for thy truth; for Thou hast glorified thine holy Name on us.
R. And I will praise thy Name, O Lord. (Alleluia.)
&Gloria
R. And I will praise thy Name, O Lord. (Alleluia.)

[Lectio4]
That the blessed Archangel Michael hath oftentimes been seen of men is attested on the authority of the Holy Bible, and also by the ancient traditions of the Saints. For this reason such visions are held in remembrance in many places. As of old time did the Synagogue of the Jews, so now doth the Church of God~
venerate Michael as her watcher and defender. But during the Popedom of Gelasius I. the summit of Mount Gargano in Apulia, at whose foot lieth the town of Siponto, was the scene of an extraordinary appearance of this same Archangel Michael.

[Responsory4]
R. This is Michael, who to battle leads the armies of the skies
* Whosoever on him calleth blessed within his wardship lies. His a prayer whose voice availing aids from earth toward heaven to rise. (Alleluia.)
V. The Archangel Michael is the Vice-Roy of Paradise, and the Angels that are the dwellers therein, do hold him in worship.
R. Whosoever on him calleth blessed within his wardship lies. His a prayer whose voice availing aids from earth toward heaven to rise. (Alleluia.)

[Lectio5]
And it came to pass on this wise. A certain man had a bull grazing with the flock upon Mount Gargano, and it strayed. And when they had sought it for a long while they found it jammed in the mouth of a cavern. Then one that stood there shot an arrow at it to slay it, but the arrow turned round and came back against him that had shot it. They therefore that saw it, and all those that heard it, were sore afraid because of that which had come to pass, so that no man dared any more to draw near to the cavern. But when they had sought counsel of the Bishop of Siponto, he answered, that it behoved to seek the interpretation from God, and proclaimed three days of fasting and prayer.

[Responsory5]
R. Where Angels lead the spirits of the blessed dead the glad procession moves with Michael at its head
* To lead them into the garden of Eden. (Alleluia.)
V. Lord, send thy Holy Spirit from heaven the Spirit of wisdom and understanding.
R. To lead them into the garden of Eden. (Alleluia.)

[Lectio6]
After three days the Archangel Michael gave warning to the Bishop that that place was under his protection, and that he had thus pointed out by a sign that he wished that worship should be offered to God there, with remembrance of himself and of the Angels. Then the Bishop and the citizens made haste and came to the cavern and when they found that the form thereof was somewhat after the fashion of a Church, they began to perform the public worship of God therein which sanctuary hath been glorified with many miracles. It was not long after these things that Pope~
Boniface IV. hallowed the Church of St Michael on Hadrian's Mole at Rome, on the 29th day of September, on the which day the Church also holdeth in remembrance All Angels. But this present day is hallowed in remembrance of the manifestation of the Archangel Michael.

[Responsory6]
R. At that time shall Michael stand up, which standeth for your children.
* And there shall be a time, such as never was since there was a nation even to that same time. (Alleluia)
V. At that time thy people shall be delivered, every one that shall be found written in the Book of Life.
R. And there shall be a time, such as never was since there was a nation even to that same time. (Alleluia)
&Gloria
R. And there shall be a time, such as never was since there was a nation even to that same time. (Alleluia)

[Lectio94]
That the blessed Archangel Michael hath oftentimes been seen of men is attested on the authority of the Holy Bible, and also by the ancient traditions of the Saints. For this reason such visions are held in remembrance in many places. As of old time did the Synagogue of the Jews, so now doth the Church of God venerate Michael as her watcher and defender. But during the Popedom of Gelasius I, the summit of Mount Gargano in Apulia, at whose foot lieth the town of Siponto, was the scene of an extraordinary appearance of this same Archangel Michael. It was not long after these things that Pope Boniface IV hallowed the Church of St. Michael on Hadrian's Mole at Rome, on the 29th day of September, on the which day the Church also holdeth in remembrance All Angels. But this present day is hallowed in remembrance of the manifestation of the Archangel Michael.
&teDeum

[Lectio7]
From the Holy Gospel according to Matthew
!Matt 18:1-10
At that time Came the disciples unto Jesus, saying Who is the greatest in the kingdom of heaven? And so on. 
_
Homily by St Jerome, Priest (at Bethlehem.)
!Bk. iii. Comm. on Matth. xviii.
After the finding of the piece of money in the fish's mouth, after the payment of the tribute, what meaneth this sudden question of the Apostles? Who is the greatest in the kingdom of heaven? They had seen that the same tribute-money was paid for Peter as for the Lord, and from this equality of reckoning they gathered that Peter was Prince of all the Apostles, seeing that he had been~
appraised at the same price as his Master. Therefore they ask, Who is the greatest in the kingdom of heaven? And Jesus, seeing their thoughts, and understanding wherefore they erred, is fain to take away the desire of glory by the love of lowliness.

[Responsory7]
R. Be not ye afraid before the Gentiles but in your hearts, worship ye the Lord, and fear Him
* For His Angel is with you. (Alleluia.)
V. An Angel stood at the Altar of the Temple, having a golden censer in his hand.
R. For His Angel is with you. (Alleluia.)

[Lectio8]
Therefore, if thy hand or thy foot offend thee, cut them off, and cast them from thee for it must needs be that offences come, but woe to that man by whom the offence cometh!  because by his sin he maketh, and maketh to be his own work, that which must needs be in the world. Away, then, with every affection and every kinship, lest thy love should throw a stumbling-block before a single~
believer. Be there any, saith He, who is as near to thee as thine hand, thy foot, or thine eye, useful, careful, far - seeing, but who layeth a stumbling-block before thee, and whose diverse way of life may draw thee to hell it is better for thee to lose such an one and thy worldly happiness with him, than to live surrounded by them that are near and needful to thee, and to pile up unto thyself damnation.

[Responsory8]
R. The Archangel Michael came to help God's people.
* He arose to succour the spirits of the righteous. (Alleluia.)
V. An Angel stood at the Altar of the Temple, having a golden censer in his hand.
R. He arose to succour the spirits of the righteous. (Alleluia.)
&Gloria
R. He arose to succour the spirits of the righteous. (Alleluia.)

[Lectio9]
I say unto you that in heaven their angels do always behold the face of My~
Father. Above, He had said that every tie of kinship or of convenience which might become a stumbling-block, albeit close and needful as hand, or foot, or eye, was to be cut off, but here He softeneth the hardness of that precept Take heed that ye despise not one of these little ones. Hardness, saith He, I command not save as teaching tenderness withal; in heaven their Angels do always~
behold the face of My Father. Oh, how great is the dignity of souls, whereof every one hath from its birth an Angel appointed to guard it! Hence, we read in the Revelation of John Unto the Angel of the Church of Ephesus, (and so of the others,) write, (ii. I, &c.) And the Apostle (Paul) also saith The woman (that is, in the Church) ought to have a covering on her head, because of the~
Angels, (i Cor. xi. 10.) The Hy7nn, We praise thee, O God, &c, is said.
&teDeum

[Ant Laudes]
An Angel stood at the Altar * of the Temple, having a golden censer in his hand. (Alleluia.)
While as the Archangel Michael fought against the dragon, * I heard voices saying Salvation unto our God. Alleluia.
Michael Mine Archangel, * I have appointed thee for a prince over the ingathering of souls. (Alleluia.)
O ye Angels of the Lord, bless ye the Lord always. (Alleluia.)
O ye Angels and Archangels, * O ye Thrones and Dominions, O ye Principalities and Powers, O ye mighty Ones of heaven, praise ye the Lord from the heavens Alleluia.

[Capitulum Laudes]
!Rev 1:1-2
v. God gave unto Jesus Christ to show unto His servants the things which must shortly come to pass and He sent and signified it by His Angel unto His servant John who bare witness of the Word of God and of the testimony of Jesus Christ, of all the things which he saw.
$Deo gratias

[Hymnus Laudes]
v. Christ, of the angels praise and adoration,
Father and Saviour thou, of every nation,
Graciously grant us all to gain a station,
Where thou art reigning.
_
Angel all peaceful, to our dwellings send us,
Michael, from heaven coming to befriend us,
Breathing serenest peace may he attend us,
Grim war dispelling.
_
Angel of strength, who triumphed, tumults quelling,
Gabriel send us, ancient foes expelling,
Oft in these temples may he make his dwelling,
Dear unto heaven.
_
Angel physician, health on man bestowing,
Raphael send us from the skies all glowing,
All sickness curing, wisest counsel showing
In doubt and danger.
_
May the fair Mother of the Light be o'er us,
Virgin of peace, with all the angel chorus,
And may the heavenly army go before us,
Guiding and guarding.
_
O may the Godhead, endless bliss possessing,
Father, Son, Spirit, grant to us this blessing;
All his creation joins his praise confessing,
Now and forever.
Amen.

[Versum 2]
V. An Angel stood at the altar of the Temple. (Alleluia.)
R. Having a golden censer in his hand. (Alleluia.)

[Ant 2]
There was silence * in heaven while as the dragon made war, and Michael fought against him, and prevailed over him. (Alleluia.)

[Lectio Prima]
!Rev 12:7-8
The was a great war in heaven Michael and his angels fought against the dragon and the dragon fought, and his angels and prevailed not neither was their place found anymore in heaven.

[Capitulum Tertia]
!Rev 1:1-2
v. God gave unto Jesus Christ to show unto His servants the things which must shortly come to pass and He sent and signified it by His Angel unto His servant John who bare witness of the Word of God and of the testimony of Jesus Christ, of all the things which he saw.
$Deo gratias

[Responsory Tertia]
R.br. An Angel stood at the Altar of the Temple. Alleluia, Alleluia.
R. An Angel stood at the Altar of the Temple. Alleluia, Alleluia.
V. Having a golden censer in his hand.
R. Alleluia, Alleluia.
&Gloria
R. An Angel stood at the Altar of the Temple. Alleluia, Alleluia.
_
V. And the smoke of the incense ascended up before the Lord. Alleluia.
R. Out of the Angel's hand. Alleluia.

[Capitulum Sexta]
!Rev 5:11-12
v. I heard the voice of many Angels round about the throne, and the living creatures and the elders and the number of them was thousands of thousands, saying with a loud voice Salvation unto our God
$Deo gratias

[Responsory Sexta]
R.br. The smoke of the incense ascended up before the Lord. Alleluia, Alleluia.
R. The smoke of the incense ascended up before the Lord. Alleluia, Alleluia.
V. Out of the Angel's hand.
R. Alleluia, Alleluia.
&Gloria
R. The smoke of the incense ascended up before the Lord. Alleluia, Alleluia.
_
V. Before the Angels will I sing praise unto thee, O my God. Alleluia.
R. I will worship toward thy holy Temple, and praise thy Name. Alleluia.

[Capitulum Nona]
!Rev 12:7-8
v. The was a great war in heaven Michael and his angels fought against the dragon and the dragon fought, and his angels and prevailed not neither was their place found anymore in heaven.
$Deo gratias

[Responsory Nona]
R.br. Before the Angels will I sing praise unto thee, O my God.
R. Before the Angels will I sing praise unto thee, O my God.
V. I will worship toward thy holy Temple, and praise thy Name.
R. Alleluia, Alleluia.
&Gloria
R. Before the Angels will I sing praise unto thee, O my God,
_
V. Worship God. Alleluia.
R. All ye His Angels. Alleluia.

[Versum 3]
V. Before the Angels will I sing praise unto thee, O my God. (Alleluia.)
R. I will worship toward thy holy Temple, and praise thy Name. (Alleluia.)

[Ant 3]
O thou Prince most glorious * Michael the Archangel, remember us and here, and everywhere, alway entreat for us the countenance of the Son of God. Alleluia.
