[Name]
Commune Unius Martyris

[Rule]
Psalmi Dominica
Antiphonas horas
Psalm5 Vespera=116
Psalm5 Vespera3=115

[Ant Vespera]
Whosoever shall confess Me * before men, him will I confess also before My Father.;;109
He that followeth Me * walketh not in darkness, but shall have the light of life, saith the Lord.;;110
If any man serve Me, * let him follow Me and where I am, there shall also My servant be.;;111
If any man serve Me, * him will My Father, who is in heaven, honour.;;112
Father, I will * that where I am, there shall also My servant be.;;116

[Capitulum Vespera]
!Jas 1:12
v. Blessed is the man that endureth temptation; for when he hath been proved, he shall receive a crown of life, which God hath promised to them that love him.
$Deo gratias

[Hymnus Vespera]
v. O God, of those that fought thy fight,
Portion, and prize, and crown of light,
Break every bond of sin and shame
As now we praise thy martyr's name.
_
He recked not of the world's allure,
But sin and pomp of sin forswore:
Knew all their gall, and passed them by,
And reached the throne prepared on high.
_
Bravely the course of pain he ran,
And bare his torments as a man:
For love of thee his blood outpoured,
And thus obtained the great reward.
_
With humble voice and suppliant word
We pray thee therefore, holy Lord,
While we thy martyr's feast-day keep,
Forgive thy loved and erring sheep.
_
* Glory and praise for aye be done
To God the Father, and the Son,
And Holy Ghost, who reign on high,
One God, to all eternity.
Amen.

[Versum 1]
V. Thou hast crowned him with glory and honour, O Lord.
R. And madest him to have dominion over the works of thy hands.

[Ant 1]
This man is holy * for he hath striven for the law of his God even unto death, and hath not feared for the words of the ungodly; For he had his foundation upon a strong rock.

[Invit]
The Lord, the King of Martyrs, * O come, let us worship.

[Ant Matutinum]
His delight * was in the law of the Lord day and night.;;1
The Lord hath set him * upon His holy hill, to declare His decree.;;2
I cried unto the Lord * with my voice, and He heard me out of His holy hill.;;3
V. Thou hast crowned him with glory and honour, O Lord.
R. And madest him to have dominion over the works of thy hands.
O ye sons of men, * know that the Lord hath set apart him that is holy for Himself.;;4
O Lord, Thou hast compassed him * with thy favour as with a shield.;;5
Thou hast crowned him * with glory and honour in all the earth.;;8
V. O Lord, Thou hast set a crown of precious stones.
R. Upon his head.
The righteous Lord * loveth righteousness; His countenance doth behold uprightness.;;10
He shall dwell * in thy tabernacle, He shall rest upon thy holy hill.;;14
O Lord, Thou hast set a crown * of precious stones upon his head.;;20
V. His glory is great in thy salvation.
R. Honour and great majesty shalt Thou lay upon him.

[Lectio1]
Lesson from the Acts of Apostles
!Acts 20:17-24
17 And sending from Miletus to Ephesus, he called the ancients of the church.
18 And when they were come to him, and were together, he said to them: You know from the first day that I came into Asia, in what manner I have been with you, for all the time,
19 Serving the Lord with all humility, and with tears, and temptations which befell me by the conspiracies of the Jews;
20 How I have kept back nothing that was profitable to you, but have preached it to you, and taught you publicly, and from house to house,
21 Testifying both to Jews and Gentiles penance towards God, and faith in our Lord Jesus Christ.
22 And now, behold, being bound in the spirit, I go to Jerusalem: not knowing the things which shall befall me there:
23 Save that the Holy Ghost in every city witnesseth to me, saying: That bands and afflictions wait for me at Jerusalem.
24 But I fear none of these things, neither do I count my life more precious than myself, so that I may consummate my course and the ministry of the word which I received from the Lord Jesus, to testify the gospel of the grace of God.

[Responsory1]
R. This man is holy, for he hath striven for the law of his God even unto death, and hath not feared for the words of the ungodly;
* For he had his foundation upon a strong rock.
V. This is he which loved not his life in this world, and is come unto an everlasting kingdom.
R. For he had his foundation upon a strong rock.

[Lectio2]
!Acts 20:25-31
25 And now behold, I know that all you, among whom I have gone preaching the kingdom of God, shall see my face no more.
26 Wherefore I take you to witness this day, that I am clear from the blood of all men;
27 For I have not spared to declare unto you all the counsel of God.
28 Take heed to yourselves, and to the whole flock, wherein the Holy Ghost hath placed you bishops, to rule the church of God, which he hath purchased with his own blood.
29 I know that, after my departure, ravening wolves will enter in among you, not sparing the flock.
30 And of your own selves shall arise men speaking perverse things, to draw away disciples after them.
31 Therefore watch, keeping in memory, that for three years I ceased not, with tears to admonish every one of you night and day.

[Responsory2]
R. The righteous shall grow as the lily
* Yea, he shall flourish in the presence of the Lord for ever.
V. Those that be planted in the house of the Lord, shall flourish in the courts of the house of our God.
R. Yea, he shall flourish in the presence of the Lord for ever.

[Lectio3]
!Acts 20:32-38
32 And now I commend you to God, and to the word of his grace, who is able to build up, and to give an inheritance among all the sanctified.
33 I have not coveted any man's silver, gold, or apparel, as
34 You yourselves know: for such things as were needful for me and them that are with me, these hands have furnished.
35 I have showed you all things, how that so labouring you ought to support the weak, and to remember the word of the Lord Jesus, how he said: It is a more blessed thing to give, rather than to receive.
36 And when he had said these things, kneeling down, he prayed with them all.
37 And there was much weeping among them all; and falling on the neck of Paul, they kissed him,
38 Being grieved most of all for the word which he had said, that they should see his face no more. And they brought him on his way to the ship.

[Responsory3]
R. This is he which knew righteousness, and saw great wonders, and made his prayer unto the Most High
* And he is numbered among the Saints.
V. This is he which loved not his life in this world, and is come unto an everlasting kingdom.
R. And he is numbered among the Saints.
&Gloria
R. And he is numbered among the Saints.

[Lectio4]
From the Sermons of St Austin, Bishop (of Hippo.)
!44 on the Saints.
The illustrious day whereon the blessed Martyr N. conquered, doth this day come round to us again and as the Church doth rejoice with him in his glory, so doth she set before us his footsteps to be followed. For if we suffer, we shall also reign with him. In his glorious battle we have two things chiefly to consider the hardened cruelty of the tormentor, and the unconquered patience of the Martyr the cruelty of the tormentor, that we may abhor it; the patience of the Martyr, that we may imitate it. Hear what the Psalmist saith, complaining against sin: "Fret not thyself because of the evil-doers, for they shall soon dry up like the grass." (xxxvi. 1.) But touching the patience which is to be shown against the evil-doers, hear the word wherewith the Apostle moveth us Ye have need of patience, that ye may receive the promise. (Heb. x. 36.)

[Responsory4]
R. The Lord made him honourable, and defended him from his enemies, and kept him safe from those that lay in wait for him,
* And gave him perpetual glory.
V. He went down with him into the pit, and left him not in bonds.
R. And gave him perpetual glory.

[Lectio5]
So the patience of the blessed Martyr was crowned, and the unchastened spite of the tormentor is given over to everlasting torture. Christ's glorious champion looked for this during his battle, and shrank not from prison. Like his Head, he bore reproach, underwent mocking, and feared not for scourges and as many sufferings as for Christ's sake he bore before he died, so many offerings did he make unto Him of himself. He had drunk in the Apostles' word and kept it deep in I him: "The sufferings of this present time are not worthy to be compared with the glory which shall be revealed in us," (Rom. viii. 18.) "for our light affliction which is but for a moment, worketh for us a far more exceeding and~
eternal weight of glory." (2 Cor. iv. 17.) Being lifted up above earthly things by the love of this promise, andj tasting beforehand the sweetness of the heavenly peace, he was unspeakably moved, and said with the Psalmist "What have I in heaven, and what is there upon earth that desire beside thee My flesh and my heart faileth Thou art the God of my heart, and God is my portion for ever." (lxxii. 26.)

[Responsory5]
R. Lord, Thou hast given him his heart's desire.
* And hast not withholden the request of his lips.
V. For Thou hast prevented him with the blessings of sweetness: Thou hast set a crown of precious stones upon his head.
R. And hast not withholden the request of his lips.

[Lectio6]
For he considered, as far as man's weakness is able, through this darkness, to fix the eyes of his mind upon the eternal things, what is the gladness of the city above and being not able to tell it, he cried out wondering "What have I in heaven?" As though he would have said "It passeth my strength, it passeth the power of my utterance, it goeth beyond the reach of my understanding, what is that beauty, what is that glory, what is that exaltation, wherein, when He hath hidden us from the troubling of men, in the secret of His presence, our Lord Jesus Christ shall change our vile body, that it may be fashioned like unto His glorious Body" (Ps. xxx. 21, Phil. iii. 21.) In sight of this perfect liberty he shrank from no danger, and quailed before no suffering and if he could have died a thousand times, he would not have thought himself to have bought it at a price high enough.

[Responsory6]
R. The Lord hath put on him a robe of honour,
* And put about his head a crown of joy.
V. With the bread of life and understanding hath the Lord fed him, and given him the water of health and wisdom to drink.
R. And put about his head a crown of joy.
&Gloria
R. And put about his head a crown of joy.

[Lectio7]
From the Holy Gospel according to Luke
!Luke 14:26-33
At that time, Jesus said unto the multitudes: If any man come to Me, and hate not his father, and mother, and wife, and children, and brethren, and sisters, yea, and his own life also, he cannot be My disciple. And so on.
_
Homily by Pope St Gregory the Great
!Homilia 37th on the Gospels.
Dearly beloved brethren, if we consider what and how great things are promised unto us in heaven, all things which are upon earth grow poor to our mind. For when this world's goods are reckoned against the gladness above, they are found to be a clog rather than an help. This present life being compared to life eternal, ought rather to be called death than life. For what is the daily failing of our corruption but, as it were, a creeping death But what tongue is there that can tell, or what understanding that can comprehend how great is the rejoicing in the city above, where they have part with the choirs of Angels, where they stand with the most blessed spirits before the glory of the Creator, where they see the face of God present, where they behold the Incomprehensible Light, where they have no fear of death, and where they rejoice eternally incorruptible

[Responsory7]
R. A crown of gold upon his head,
* Wherein is engraved Holiness, an ornament of honour, a costly work.
V. For Thou hast prevented him with the blessings of sweetness, Thou hast set a crown of precious stones upon his head.
R. Wherein is engraved Holiness, an ornament of honour, a costly work.

[Lectio8]
Then we hear these things our hearts burn within us and we long to be already~
there, where we hope to rejoice for ever. But we cannot attain unto great~
rewards, save through great labour. Therefore saith the excellent preacher Paul: "He is not crowned, except he strive lawfully." (2 Tim. ii. 5.) The greatness of the reward doth delight our mind let not the throes of the struggle dishearten us. Therefore the Truth saith unto every one that cometh unto Him " If any man come to Me, and hate not his father and mother, and wife, and children, and brethren, and sisters, yea, and his own life also, he cannot be My disciple."

[Responsory8]
R. This is a Martyr indeed, who shed his blood for Christ's Name's sake
* Who feared not for the threats of judges, nor sought to be great with the glory of this world, but pressed on unto the kingdom of heaven.
V. The Lord guided the righteous in right paths, and showed him the kingdom of God.
R. Who feared not for the threats of judges, nor sought to be great with the glory of this world, but pressed on unto the kingdom of heaven.
&Gloria
R. Who feared not for the threats of judges, nor sought to be great with the glory of this world, but pressed on unto the kingdom of heaven.

[Responsory8NonEffusorum]
R. O Lord, thou hast prevented him with blessings of sweetness:
* Thou hast set on his head a crown of precious stones.
V. He asked life of thee: and thou hast given him length of days for ever and ever.
R. Thou hast set on his head a crown of precious stones.
&Gloria
R. Thou hast set on his head a crown of precious stones.

[Lectio9]
Or it may be asked how we are commanded in one place to hate our parents, and them that are near us in the flesh, and in another place to love even our enemies. And, verily, the Truth hath said, as touching a wife "What God hath joined together, let not man put asunder." (Matth. xix. 6.) And Paul saith "~
Husbands, love your wives, even as Christ also loved the Church." (Eph. v. 25.) Behold, the disciple commandeth a man to love his wife, and the Master saith " If any man hate not his wife, he cannot be My disciple." Doth the judge, then, order one proclamation, and the crier make another? or can the man both love and hate? If we consider well the force of the commandment, we shall be able in wisdom to do both. Let us love wife, and kindred, and neighbour, as touching their nearness in the flesh but as touching the way of God, if they withstand us therein, let us not know them, but hate them and flee from them.
&teDeum

[Ant Laudes]
@:Ant Vespera:s/;;.*//g

[Capitulum Laudes]
@:Capitulum Vespera

[Hymnus Laudes]
v. Martyr of God, whose strength was steeled
To follow close God's only Son,
Well didst thou brave thy battlefield,
And well thy heavenly bliss was won!
_
Now join thy prayers with ours, who pray
That God may pardon us and bless;
For prayer keeps evil's plague away,
And draws from life its weariness.
_
Long, long ago, were loosed the chains
That held thy body once in thrall;
For us how many a bond remains!
O love of God release us all.
_
All praise to God the Father be,
All praise to thee, Eternal Son;
All praise, O Holy Ghost, to thee,
While never-ending ages run.
Amen.

[Versum 2]
V. The righteous shall flourish like the palm-tree.
R. He shall grow like a cedar in Lebanon.

[Ant 2]
He that hateth his life * in this world, shall keep it unto life eternal.

[Oratio]
Mercifully consider our weakness, O Almighty God, and whereas by the burden of our sins we are sore, let N. your Martyr be mercifully pleased to deliver us from all things which may hurt our bodies, and from all evil thoughts which may defile our souls.
$Per Dominum

[Oratio1]
O God, who year by year dost gladden us by the solemn feast day of thy Blessed~
Martyr and Bishop N., mercifully grant that we who keep his birthday, may~
ever feel the joyful effects of his protection.
$Per Dominum

[Oratio2]
Grant, we beseech thee, almighty God, that we who celebrate the martyrdom of blessed N., through his intercession be strengtened in your love.
$Per Dominum

[Oratio3]
Graciously hear us, we beseech thee, O Almighty God, and, at the petition of thy blessed Martyr, N. be mercifully pleased to deliver us from all things which may hurt our bodies, and from all evil thoughts which may defile our souls.
$Per Dominum

[Lectio Prima]
!Sir 39:6
v. He will give his heart to resort early to the Lord that made him, and he will pray in the sight of the most High.

[Responsory Tertia]
R.br. Thou hast crowned him * with glory and honour, O Lord.
R. Thou hast crowned him * with glory and honour, O Lord.
V. And madest him to have dominion over the works of thy hands.
R. Thou hast crowned him.
&Gloria
R. Thou hast crowned him * with glory and honour, O Lord.
_
V. O Lord, Thou hast set a crown of precious stones.
R. Upon his head.

[Capitulum Sexta]
!Sir 15:3
v. With the bread of life and understanding, she shall feed him, and give him the water of wholesome wisdom to drink: and she shall be made strong in him, and he shall not be moved.
$Deo gratias

[Responsory Sexta]
R.br. O Lord, Thou hast set * Upon his head. 
R. O Lord, Thou hast set * Upon his head. 
V. A Crown of precious stones.
R. Upon his head.
&Gloria
R. O Lord, Thou hast set * Upon his head.
_
V. His glory is great in thy salvation.
R. Honour and great majesty shalt Thou lay upon him.

[Capitulum Nona]
!Sir 39:6
v. He will give his heart to resort early to the Lord that made him, and he will pray in the sight of the most High.
$Deo gratias

[Responsory Nona]
R.br. His glory is great * in thy salvation.
R. His glory is great * in thy salvation.
V. Honour and great majesty shalt Thou lay upon him.
R. In thy salvation.
&Gloria
R. His glory is great * in thy salvation.
_
V. The righteous shall flourish like the palm-tree.
R. He shall grow like a cedar in Lebanon.

[Ant 3]
If any man will come after me, * let him deny himself and take up his cross daily and follow me.

[Lectio41]
From the Epistle of St Cyprian, Bishop (of Carthage,) and himself Martyr, to the Martyrs and Confessors.
!Bh. ii. ep. 6
How shall I praise you, Martyrs so brilliantly victorious ? Can the voice of man's praise add anything to the glory of your manful heart and unshaken faithfulness ? Ye have borne all the hardness of the torment, and have attained unto the excellent height of glory : the tormentors have not worn you out, nay, ye rather have worn out the tormentors. When they that kill the body would give you no rest from suffering, ye suffered until ye gained the crown. And the torment waxing still more dread, waxed not to the casting down of your strong faith, but to the sooner sending God's men home to God.

[Responsory41]
R. Eternal light will shine over your saints, O Lord.
* And the eternity of the times, alleluia, alleluia.
V. Everlasting joy shall be upon their heads, they shall obtain joy and gladness.
R. And the eternity of the times, alleluia, alleluia.

[Lectio51]
They that stood by looked in wonder at your heavenly conflict, that battle of God, that wrestling of spirit, that combat of Christ. There they saw His servants standing with voice unshaken, with spirit unbroken, strong in God's strength, naked indeed, as to the arms of this world, but clothed on with the armour of God, and equipped with the fiery weapons of faith. There they that were tormented stood braver than they that tormented them. Their bruised and mangled bodies overcame the instruments of cruelty that bruised and mangled them. The bloody stripes, so often laid on, could not beat down the impregnable castle of their faith, even when the covering of their bowels was broken, and that which was tormented in God's servants was no longer limbs but wounds. The blood that ran down, ran down to quench the rage of persecution, noble blood, that can put out the flames and fire of hell.

[Responsory51]
R. God will comfort, alleluia
* His servants, alleluia, alleluia.
V. The Lord will judge His people, and will comfort.
R. His servants, alleluia, alleluia.

[Lectio61]
O what a spectacle was that in the eyes of the Lord! O how noble! O how mighty! O how precious in the sight of God were His soldiers' loyalty and faithfulness! Even as it is written in the Psalms, the Holy Ghost therein at once speaking to us and warning us :Precious in the sight of the Lord is the death of His Saints. O what a precious death is his, who maketh purchase of life that can never die, at the price of his own blood, and seizeth on the crown, when courage hath no more left to meet! O how joyful was Christ! How gladly fought He in such servants as these,in these how gladly did He triumph, the Keeper of their faith, and, in the end, to them how gladly did He give that reward which no man knoweth saving he that receiveth it! (Apoc. ii. 17.) He it was, Who was there when they fought, He it was, Who raised them up to be the champions and defenders of His holy Name, He, who gave them the strength, He, Who nerved them. He, That by death hath once conquered for us, liveth now for ever to conquer in us.

[Responsory61]
R. Come forth, O ye daughters of Jerusalem, and behold the Martyrs with the crowns wherewith the Lord crowned them;
* In the day of His feasting, and of His gladness. Alleluia.
V. For He hath strengthened the bars of thy gates He hath blessed thy children within thee.
R. In the day of His feasting, and of His gladness. Alleluia.
&Gloria
R. In the day of His feasting, and of His gladness. Alleluia.

[Lectio71]
From the Holy Gospel according to John
!John 15:5-10
At that time, Jesus said unto His disciples: I am the vine, ye are the branches: He that abideth in Me and I in him, the same bringeth forth much fruit: for without Me ye can do nothing. And so on.
_
Homily by St Austin, Bishop (of Hippo.)
!Tract 81 on John.
Lest any man should so take these words, "the same bringeth forth much fruit," as to think that the branch can of itself bring forth any fruit whatsoever, the Lord saith further, "without Me ye can do," not only "small things," but "nothing." Whether, then, it be little or much, there can be nothing done, save through Him, without Whom we can do nothing: for if the branch bring forth fruit, albeit but little, it is through Him That purgeth it, that it may bring forth more fruit. And if the branch abide not in the vine, and draw not his sap from the vine's root, it can bring forth no fruit whatsoever of itself. And as Christ would not have been the vine, if He had not been man, He could not have given grace to His branches, if He had not been God.

[Responsory71]
R. I am the vine: you the branches.
* He that abideth in me, and I in him, the same beareth much fruit, alleluia, alleluia.
V. As the Father hath loved me, I also have loved you.
R. He that abideth in me, and I in him, the same beareth much fruit, alleluia, alleluia.

[Lectio81]
Whithout the sap of grace the branch cannot live, and it is within the power of his own free will to choose death rather than life. "If a man abide not in Me," saith the Lord, "he is cast forth as a branch, and is withered, and men gather them, and cast them into the fire, and they are burned." So much the more worthy as is the branch of the vine, if it abide in the vine, so much the baser is it, if it abide not in the vine. Then is it as the vine-branches whereof the Prophet Ezekiel saith (xv. 3, 4) that wood shall not be taken thereof to do any work, and it is meet for no work. The branch hath choice of two things, the vine, or the fire: if it abide not in the vine, it shall be cast into the fire; if, then, it would not be cast into the fire, let it abide in the vine.

[Responsory81]
R. Her Nazarites are become pure, Alleluia; they reflect the glory of God, Alleluia.
* They are whiter than milk. Alleluia, Alleluia.
V. They are purer than snow, they are whiter than milk, they are more ruddy in body than coral, their polishing is of sapphire.
R. They are whiter than milk. Alleluia, Alleluia.
&Gloria
R. They are whiter than milk. Alleluia, Alleluia.

[Lectio91]
If ye abide in Me," saith the Lord, "and My words abide in you, ye shall ask what ye will and it shall be done unto you." And what can they will that abide in Christ, save the things of Christ? What can they will that abide in the Saviour save such things as tend to salvation? Since we are in Christ we will one thing, and since we are as yet in this world, we will another. Since we are yet in this world, it befalleth us to seek some things, whereof we know not that they be inexpedient for us. But far be it from us to think that we shall obtain them, if we abide in Christ, for, when we seek from Him, He giveth not, save that which is expedient for us.
&teDeum

[Lectio72]
The Lesson is taken from the Holy Gospel according to Matthew
!Matt 10:26-32
At that time, Jesus said unto His disciples: There is nothing covered, that shall not be revealed, and hid, that shall not be known. And so on.
_
Homily by St Hilary, Bishop (of Poitiers.)
!Comm. on Matt Chap. 10
The Lord pointeth to the day of judgment, that day wherein the hidden counsels of the hearts shall be made manifest, and those things which are dark now shall be the subject of all men's knowledge. Therefore He warneth us not to fear threats, nor persuasions, nor the power of such as fight against us since in the day of judgment it will be manifest that all these things are null and void. "And what I tell you in darkness, that speak ye in light; and what ye hear in the ear, that preach ye upon the house-tops." We read not that the Lord's use was to speak by night, or to tell His doctrine in darkness, but that to the carnal all His words were darkness, and to the unbelieving all His discourse night.

[Responsory72]
@Commune/C2:Responsory7

[Lectio82]
Therefore willeth He that that which He hath spoken, should be freely proclaimed in faith and in confession. Therefore commandeth He that that which He hath told in darkness shall be spoken in light, and that that which He hath made to be heard in the ear should be preached upon the house-tops, that is, with loud and high words. For it behoveth us ever to make God known, and to speak in the light of Apostolic preaching the dark things of the Gospel message, having no fear of them which have power over bodies, but none over our souls, but rather fearing God, Which is able to destroy both body and soul in hell.

[ResponsoryNonEffusorum]
R. O Lord, thou hast prevented him with blessings of sweetness:
* Thou hast set on his head a crown of precious stones.
V. He asked life of thee: and thou hast given him length of days for ever and ever.
R. Thou hast set on his head a crown of precious stones.
&Gloria
R. Thou hast set on his head a crown of precious stones.

[Lectio92]
Fear not them which kill the body. Therefore we need fear nothing which may chance to our bodies, nor sorrow because of the destruction of the flesh, when, according to the laws of our nature and that from whence we are taken, we are unclothed upon, and become a pure spirit. And, since it behoveth us who are rooted in such a doctrine, freely and constantly to confess God, even were it only because of the alternative whereby we are bound, He saith further: "Whosoever shall confess Me before men, him will I confess also before My Father, Which is in heaven. But whosoever shall deny Me before men, him will I also deny before My Father, Which is in heaven." Such witnesses as He hath seen us to have been here to His name before men, such a Witness shall we find Him to be hereafter to our names before His Father Which is in heaven.
&teDeum

[Lectio73]
From the Holy Gospel according to Matthew
!Matt 16:24-27
At that time, Jesus said unto His disciples: If any man will come after Me, let him deny himself, and take up his cross, and follow Me. And so on.
_
Homily by Pope St Gregory (the Great.)
!32nd on the Gospels
Our Lord and Redeemer came into the world a new Man, and gave the world new commandments. For against the ways of our old life, brought and bred up in sin, He set the contrast of His new life. It was the old way, according to the knowledge of the carnal man, for every man to keep his own goods, and, if he were able to do it, to take his neighbour's goods also, and, if he were not able to take them, at least to lust after them. But the Heavenly Physician hath medicines wherewith to meet all the diseases of sin. For, even, as by the art of the physician, things hot are healed by things cold, and things cold by things hot, so doth our Lord set against sin holiness, ordaining for the lecherous purity, for the miserly munificence, for the hot-tempered meekness, and for the proud lowliness.

[Lectio83]
So the Lord, when He would give a new commandment unto them that came to Him, said Whosoever he be of you that forsaketh not all that he hath, he cannot be My disciple, (Luke xiv. 33,) as though He had said openly: All ye that according to the old man lust after your neighbour's goods, must, according to the zeal of the new man, give away even that which is your own. But let us hear again what He saith in this place If any man will come after Me, let him deny himself. First He saith that we must deny to ourselves that which is our own, and now that we must even deny ourselves to ourselves. Perchance it is not hard for a man to give up that which is his own, but it is exceeding hard to give up himself. To deny himself his possessions is little but to deny himself himself is a denial exceeding great.

[Lectio93]
Let when we come unto Him the Lord will have us deny to ourselves even ourselves, since as many of us as are entered into the battle of faith, are entered into a contention against evil spirits. But the evil spirits have nothing of their own in this world, and therefore must we wrestle with them, naked with naked. For if he that is clothed, wrestle with him that is naked, he faileth swiftly, because he hath whereon he that is naked taketh hold. And what are all things earthly but things wherewith the soul is clothed upon? whosoever therefore will wrestle with Satan, let him cast away his clothes, lest he be thereby endangered.
&teDeum
