[Missa]
Vultum tuum

[Lectio]
A reading from the Epistle of blessed Paul the Apostle to the Corinthians.
!1 Cor 7:25-34
Brethren: Now concerning virgins, I have no commandment of the Lord; but I give counsel, as having obtained mercy of the Lord, to be faithful. I think therefore that this is good for the present necessity, that it is good for a man so to be. Art thou bound to a wife? seek not to be loosed. Art thou loosed from a wife? seek not a wife. But if thou take a wife, thou hast not sinned. And if a virgin marry, she hath not sinned: nevertheless, such shall have tribulation of the flesh. But I spare you. This therefore I say, brethren; the time is short; it remaineth, that they also who have wives, be as if they had none; And they that weep, as though they wept not; and they that rejoice, as if they rejoiced not; and they that buy, as though they possessed not; And they that use this world, as if they used it not: for the fashion of this world passeth away. But I would have you to be without solicitude. He that is without a wife, is solicitous for the things that belong to the Lord, how he may please God. But he that is with a wife, is solicitous for the things of the world, how he may please his wife: and he is divided. And the unmarried woman and the virgin thinketh on the things of the Lord, that she may be holy both in body and in spirit: in Christ Jesus our Lord.

[Graduale]
!Ps 44:12 et 11
The king greatly desires thy beauty, since he is the Lord, your God.
V. Hearken, O daughter, and see, and incline thy ear.
Alleluia, alleluia.
V. This is a wise virgin, and one of the number of the prudent. Alleluia.

[Tractus]
!Ps 44:12 et 11
The king greatly desires thy beauty, since he is the Lord, your God.
V. Hearken, O daughter, and see, and incline thy ear.
_
!Tractus
!Ps 44:12, 13 and 10
And the king shall greatly desire thy beauty; 
V. All the rich among the people, shall entreat thy countenance. the daughters of kings have delighted thee in thy glory. 
!Ps 44:15-16
v.  After her shall virgins be brought to the king: her neighbours shall be brought to thee. They shall be brought with gladness and rejoicing: they shall be brought into the temple of the king.

[Communio]
!Matt 13:45-46
The kingdom of heaven is like a merchant in search of fine pearls. When he finds a single pearl of great price, he goes and sells all that he has and buys it. (Alleluja.)
