[Officium]
Common of multiple Virgins and Martyrs

[Missa]
Me exspectaverunt

[Rule]
Gloria

[Versum 1]
V. After her shall virgins be brought unto the King. 
R. Her fellows shall be brought unto thee. 

[Ant 1]
Trim your lamps, O ye wise virgins: * Behold the Bridegroom cometh; go ye out to meet Him. 

[Oratio]
Grant unto us, we beseech thee, O Lord, our God, that we may ever call to mind, with all worship and thanksgiving, the victory of thy holy Virgins and Martyrs N. and N., and although we know that our mind cannot comprehend thee who art this day their exceeding great reward, give us always the grace humbly to worship thee.
$Per Dominum

[Oratio] (ad missam)
Grant, we beseech thee, O Lord our God, that we may never cease devoutly to venerate the triumphs of thy holy Virgins and Martyrs N. and N.: that, though we cannot worthily shew forth their praises, yet we may continually honour them with lowly service.
$Per Dominum

[Oratio1]
May blessed N., Virgin and Martyr, who was ever pleasing to You by the merit of her chastity and by her trust in Your power, implore for us Your forgiveness, we beseech You, O Lord.
$Per Dominum

[Introitus]
!Ps 118:95-96.
v. Sinners wait to destroy me, but I pay heed to Your decrees, O Lord. I see that all fulfillment has its limits; broad indeed is Your command. (Allelúja, allelúja.)
!Ps 118:1
Happy are they whose way is blameless, who walk in the law of the Lord.
&Gloria
v. Sinners wait to destroy me, but I pay heed to Your decrees, O Lord. I see that all fulfillment has its limits; broad indeed is Your command. (Allelúja, allelúja.)

[Lectio1]
Lesson from the book of Ecclesiasticus
!Sir 51:13-17.
O Lord, my God, You have exalted my dwelling place upon the earth, and I have prayed for death to pass away. I called upon the Lord, the Father of my Lord, that He would not abandon me in the day of my trouble, and in the time of the proud without help. I will ever praise Your name, and will praise it with thanksgiving; and my prayer was heard. And You saved me from destruction, and delivered me from the evil time. For this reason I thank You and I praise You, O Lord, our God.

[Graduale]
!Ps 45:6, 5
God will help her with His countenance. God is in her midst; she shall not be disturbed.
V. There is a stream whose runlets gladden the city of God; the Most High has sanctified His dwelling. Alleluia, alleluia.
V. This is a wise virgin, and one of the number of the prudent. Alleluia.

[GradualeP]
Alleluia, alleluia.
V. This is a wise virgin, and one of the number of the prudent. Alleluia.
!Wis 4:1
V. Oh, how beautiful is the chaste generation with glory! Alleluia.

[Tractus]
!Ps 45:6, 5
God will help her with His countenance. God is in her midst; she shall not be disturbed.
V. There is a stream whose runlets gladden the city of God; the Most High has sanctified His dwelling.
!
Come spouse of Christ, receive the crown, which the Lord has prepared for you forever: for the love of Whom you shed your blood. Ps 44:8; 44:5 You love justice and hate wickedness; therefore God, your God, has anointed you with the oil of gladness above your fellows.
V. In your splendor and your beauty ride on triumphant, and reign.

[Evangelium]
Continuation ++ of the Holy Gospel according to Matthew
!Matt 13:44-52.
At that time, Jesus spoke this parable to His disciples: The kingdom of heaven is like a treasure hidden in a field; he who finds it hides it, and in his joy goes and sells all that he has and buys that field. Again, the kingdom of heaven is like a merchant in search of fine pearls. When he finds a single pearl of great price, he goes and sells all that he has and buys it. Again, the kingdom of heaven is like a net cast into the sea that gathered in fish of every kind. When it was filled, they hauled it out, and sitting down on the beach, they gathered the good fish into vessels, but threw away the bad. So will it be at the end of the world. The angels will go out and separate the wicked from among the just, and will cast them into the furnace of fire, where there will be the weeping, and the gnashing of teeth. Have you understood all these things? They said to Him, Yes. And He said to them, So then, every Scribe instructed in the kingdom of heaven is like a householder who brings forth from his storeroom things new and old.

[Offertorium]
!Ps 44:3
Grace is poured out upon your lips; thus God has blessed you forever, and for ages of ages. (Allelúja.)

[Secreta]
O Lord, we beseech thee, look down upon these gifts, laid upon thine altars on the festival of thy holy Virgins and Martyrs N. and N.: that as by these blessed mysteries thou hast bestowed glory upon them; so thou wouldst vouchsafe to us thy pardon.
$Per Dominum

[Secreta1]
Graciously accept the sacrificial gifts offered You, O Lord, through the merits of blessed N., Your Virgin and Martyr, and grant they may prove an unfailing aid for us.
$Per Dominum

[Communio]
!Ps 118:121-122; 118:128
I have fulfilled just ordinances, O Lord; let not the proud oppress me. For in all Your precepts I go forward; every false way I hate. (Allelúja.)

[Postcommunio]
Grant to us we beseech thee, O Lord, at the intercession of thy holy Virgins and Martyrs N. and N.: that what we touch with our lips we may receive with pure minds.
$Per Dominum

[Postcommunio1]
We who have been refreshed by the richness of Your divine sacrament beseech You, O Lord our God, that through the intercession of blessed N., Your Virgin and Martyr, we may forevermore abide in its participation.
$Per Dominum
