[Officium]
Officium Defunctorum

[Missa]
Missa Defunctorum quotidianis: Requiem aeternam

[Ant Vespera]
I will walk before the Lord * in the land of the living.;;114
Woe is me! O Lord, * that my sojourn is long;;119
The Lord shall keep thee from all evil, * the Lord shall keep thy soul.;;120
If Thou, Lord, shouldest mark iniquities, * O Lord, who shall stand.;;129
O Lord, forsake not * the works of thine own hands.;;137

[Versum 1]
V. I heard a voice from heaven, saying unto me:
R. Blessed are the dead which die in the Lord.

[Ant 1]
All that the Father giveth Me shall come to Me; * and him that cometh to Me I will in no wise cast out.

[Oratio_Fid]
$Oremus
v. O God, who art thyself at once the Maker and the Redeemer of all thy faithful ones, grant unto the souls of thy servants and handmaids remission of all their sins, making of our entreaties unto our great Father a mean whereby they may have that forgiveness which they have ever hoped for.
$Qui vivis

[Oratio1]
v. Lord, we pray thee to absolve the soul of thy servant or, thine handmaid N. (here express the name) who hath died unto the world, that he (or, she) may live unto thee. And whereinsoever while he (or, she) walked among men he (or, she) hath transgressed through the weakness of the flesh, do Thou in the exceeding tenderness of thy mercy forgive and put away.
$Per Dominum

[Invit]
Unto the Eternal King all live. * O come, let us worship Him.

[Ant Matutinum]
Make my way straight before thy face, * O Lord my God.;;5
Return, O Lord, deliver my soul * O save me for thy mercy's sake.;;6
Lest he tear my soul like a lion, * while there is none to deliver, or to save.;;7
He maketh me to lie down * in green pastures.;;22
Lord, remember not the sins of my youth, * nor my transgressions.;;24
I believe that I shall yet see the goodness of the Lord * in the land of the living.;;26
Be pleased, O Lord, to deliver me * O Lord, look upon me to help me.;;39
Lord, heal my soul; * for I have sinned against thee.;;40
My soul thirsteth for the living God; * when shall I come and appear before God?;;41

[Nocturn 1 Versum]
V. From the gates of hell.
R. Deliver their souls, O Lord.

[Nocturn 2 Versum]
V. May the Lord set them with princes;
R. Even with the princes of his people.

[Nocturn 3 Versum]
V. O deliver not unto beasts the souls of them that praise thee!
R. And forget not the souls of thy poor for ever.

[Lectio1]
!Job 7:16-21
16 Spare me, for my days are nothing.
17 What is a man that thou shouldst magnify him? or why dost thou set thy heart upon him?
18 Thou visitest him early in the morning, and thou provest him suddenly.
19 How long wilt thou not spare me, nor suffer me to swallow down my spittle?
20 I have sinned: what shall I do to thee, O keeper of men? why hast thou set me opposite to thee, and I am become burdensome to myself?
21 Why dost thou not remove my sin, and why dost thou not take away my iniquity? Behold now I shall sleep in the dust: and if thou seek me in the morning, I shall not be.

[Responsory1]
R. I believe that my Redeemer liveth, and that I shall stand up from the earth at the latter day,
* And in my flesh shall I see God my Saviour.
V. Whom I shall see for myself, and mine eyes shall behold, and not another.
R. And in my flesh shall I see God my Saviour.

[Lectio2]
!Job 10:1-7
1 My soul is weary of my life, I will let go my speech against myself, I will speak in the bitterness of my soul.
2 I will say to God: Do not condemn me: tell me why thou judgest me so.
3 Doth it seem good to thee that thou shouldst calumniate me, and oppress me, the work of thy own hands, and help the counsel of the wicked?
4 Hast thou eyes of flesh: or, shalt thou see as man seeth?
5 Are thy days as the days of man, and are thy years as the times of men:
6 That thou shouldst inquire after my iniquity, and search after my sin?
7 And shouldst know that I have done no wicked thing, whereas there is no man that can deliver out of thy hand.

[Responsory2]
R. Thou Who didst call up Lazarus from the grave after that he had begun to stink
* Do Thou, O Lord, grant them rest and a place of forgiveness.
V. Thou Who shalt come to judge the quick and dead, and the world by fire
R. Do Thou, O Lord, grant them rest and a place of forgiveness.

[Lectio3]
!Job 10:8-12
8 thy hands have made me, and fashioned me wholly round about, and dost thou thus cast me down headlong on a sudden?
9 Remember, I beseech thee, that thou hast made me as the clay, and thou wilt bring me into dust again.
10 Hast thou not milked me as milk, and curdled me like cheese?
11 Thou hast clothed me with skin and flesh: thou hast put me together with bones and sinews:
12 Thou hast granted me life and mercy, and thy visitation hath preserved my spirit.

[Responsory3]
R. Lord, when Thou comest to judge the earth, where shall I hide myself from the face of thy wrath?
* For I have sinned greatly in my life.
V. I dread my sins, I blush before thee I see the great tribunal set! In fear and terror I implore thee, Forgive when soul and Judge are met!
R. For I have sinned greatly in my life.
$Requiem
R. For I have sinned greatly in my life.

[Lectio4]
!Job 13:22-28
22 Answer me.
23 How many are my iniquities and sins? make me know my crimes and offences.
24 Why hidest thou thy face, and thinkest me thy enemy?
25 Against a leaf, that is carried away with the wind, thou showest thy power, and thou pursuest a dry straw.
26 For thou writest bitter things against me, and wilt consume me for the sins of my youth.
27 Thou hast put my feet in the stocks, and hast observed all my paths, and hast considered the steps of my feet:
28 Who am to be consumed as rottenness, and as a garment that is moth-eaten.

[Responsory4]
R. Remember, O God, that my life is wind.
* The eye of him that hath seen me shall see me no more.
V. Out of the depths have I cried unto thee, O Lord! Lord, hear my voice.
R. The eye of him that hath seen me shall see me no more.

[Lectio5]
!Job 14:1-6
1 Man born of a woman, living for a short time, is filled with many miseries.
2 Who cometh forth like a flower, and is destroyed, and fleeth as a shadow, and never continueth in the same state.
3 And dost thou think it meet to open thy eyes upon such an one, and to bring him into judgment with thee?
4 Who can make him clean that is conceived of unclean seed? is it not thou who only art?
5 The days of man are short, and the number of his months is with thee: thou hast appointed his bounds which cannot be passed.
6 Depart a little from him, that he may rest, until his wished for day come, as that of the hireling

[Responsory5]
R. Woe is me, O Lord! for I have sinned greatly in my life. I am smitten what shall I do? Whither shall I flee but unto thee, O my God?
* Have mercy upon me, when Thou comest at the latter day.
V. My soul is sore vexed, but Thou, O Lord, help me.
R. Have mercy upon me, when Thou comest at the latter day.

[Lectio6]
!Job 14:13-16
13 Who will grant me this, that thou mayst protect me in hell, and hide me till thy wrath pass, and appoint me a time when thou wilt remember me?
14 Shall man that is dead, thinkest thou, live again? all the days in which I am now in warfare, I expect until my change come.
15 Thou shalt call me, and I will answer thee: to the work of thy hands thou shalt reach out thy right hand.
16 Thou indeed hast numbered my steps, but spare my sins.

[Responsory6]
R. Hold not my sins in remembrance, O Lord,
* When thou comest to judge the world by fire.
V. Make my way straight before thy face, O Lord my God.
R. When thou comest to judge the world by fire.
$Requiem
R. When thou comest to judge the world by fire.

[Lectio7]
!Job 17:1-3; 17:11-15
1 My spirit shall be wasted, my days shall be shortened, and only the grave remaineth for me.
2 I have not sinned, and my eye abideth in bitterness.
3 Deliver me O Lord, and set me beside thee, and let any man's hand fight against me.
11 My days have passed away, my thoughts are dissipated, tormenting my heart.
12 They have turned night into day, and after darkness I hope for light again.
13 If I wait hell is my house, and I have made my bed in darkness.
14 If I have said to rottenness: thou art my father; to worms, my mother and my sister.
15 Where is now then my expectation, and who considereth my patience?

[Responsory7]
R. Forasmuch as I sin daily, and repent not, the fear of death troubleth me.
* O God, have mercy upon me, and save me, for in hell there is no redemption.
V. Save me, O God, by thy name, and judge me in thy strength.
R. O God, have mercy upon me, and save me, for in hell there is no redemption.

[Lectio8]
!Job 19:20-27
20 The flesh being consumed. My bone hath cleaved to my skin, and nothing but lips are left about my teeth.
21 Have pity on me, have pity on me, at least you my friends, because the hand of the Lord hath touched me.
22 Why do you persecute me as God, and glut yourselves with my flesh?
23 Who will grant me that my words may be written? Who will grant me that they may be marked down in a book?
24 With an iron pen and in a plate of lead, or else be graven with an instrument in flint stone.
25 For I know that my Redeemer liveth, and in the last day I shall rise out of the earth.
26 And I shall be clothed again with my skin, and in my flesh I will see my God.
27 Whom I myself shall see, and my eyes shall behold, and not another: this my hope is laid up in my bosom.

[Responsory8]
R. O Lord, judge me not according to my works; for I have done nothing that can be counted in respect of thee. I beseech thy majesty therefore, that thou wouldest
* Blot out my transgressions, O God.
V. Lord, wash me thoroughly from mine iniquity and cleanse me from my sin.
R. Blot out my transgressions, O God.

[Lectio9]
!Job 10:18-22
18 Why didst thou bring me forth out of the womb: O that I had been consumed that eye might not see me!
19 I should have been as if I had not been, carried from the womb to the grave.
20 Shall not the fewness of my days be ended shortly? suffer me, therefore, that I may lament my sorrow a little:
21 Before I go, and return no more, to a land that is dark and covered with the mist of death:
22 A land of misery and darkness, where the shadow of death, and no order, but everlasting horror dwelleth.

[Responsory9]
R. Deliver me, O Lord, from eternal death in that awful day;
* when the heavens and the earth shall be shaken, and Thou shalt come to judge the world by fire.
V. Quaking and dread take hold upon me, when I look for the coming of the trial and the wrath to come.
R. When the heavens and the earth shall be shaken.
V. That day is a day of wrath, of wasteness and desolation, a great day and exceeding bitter.
R. When Thou shalt come to judge the world by fire.
$Requiem
R. Deliver me, O Lord, from eternal death in that awful day, when the heavens and the earth shall be shaken, and Thou shalt come to judge the world by fire.

[Responsory91]
R. Deliver me from the ways of hell, O Lord, Who didst break the gates of brass in sunder, and didst descend into hell, and give them light,
* That they that sat in affliction and darkness might behold thee.
V. Crying and saying, Thou hast come, O our Redeemer
R. That they that sat in affliction and darkness might behold thee.
$Requiem
R. That they that sat in affliction and darkness might behold thee.

[Conclusio]
V. O Lord, grant them eternal rest.
R. And let the everlasting light shine upon them.
V. May they rest in peace.
R. Amen.

[Ant Laudes_]
The bones which thou hast broken * may rejoice.;;50
Lord, hear * my prayer; unto thee shall all flesh come.;;64
Thy right hand * upholdeth me.;;62
From the gates of hell * deliver my soul, O Lord.;;222
Let everything that hath breath * praise the Lord.;;150

[Ant 2]
I am the resurrection and the life: * he that believeth in me, though he were dead, yet shall he live; and whosoever liveth and believeth in me shall never die.

[Oratio2]
v. O Lord God, who art the great pardoner, grant rest and refreshment, peace and blessing, light and glory, unto the souls of thy men-servants and thy maid-servants, (or, the soul of thy servant, or, of thine handmaid,) whose year's-mind we are keeping.
$Per Dominum

[Introitus]
!4 Esd. 2:34-35
v. Eternal rest give to them, O Lord; and let perpetual light shine upon them.
!Ps 64:2-3
To You we owe our hymn of praise, O God, in Sion; to You must vows be fulfilled in Jerusalem. Hear my prayer; to You all flesh must come.
v. Eternal rest give to them, O Lord; and let perpetual light shine upon them.

[Oratio] (ad missam)
O God, Creator and Redeemer of all the faithful, grant to the souls of Your servants and handmaids the remission of all their sins, that by loving prayers they may obtain the forgiveness they have ever desired.
$Qui vivis

[Lectio]
Lesson from the book of Revelation
!Apoc 14:13
In those days, I heard a voice from heaven saying, Write: Blessed are the dead who die in the Lord henceforth. Yes, says the Spirit, let them rest from their labors, for their works follow them.

[Graduale]
!4 Esd. 2:34-35
Eternal rest give to them, O Lord; and let perpetual light shine upon them.
!Ps 111:7
The just man shall be in everlasting remembrance; an evil report he shall not fear.
_
!Tractus
O Lord, absolve the souls of all the faithful departed from every bond of sin.
V. And by the help of Your grace may they be worthy to escape the sentence of vengeance.
V. And to enjoy all the beatitude of the light eternal.

[Sequentia]
!May be omitted at Daily Mass
Dreaded day, that day of ire,
When the world shall melt in fire,
Told by Sibyl and David’s lyre.
_
Fright men’s hearts shall rudely shift,
As the Judge through gleaming rift
Comes each soul to closely sift.
_
Then, the trumpet’s shrill refrain,
Piercing tombs by hill and plain,
Souls to judgment shall arraign.
_
Death and nature stand aghast,
As the bodies rising fast,
Hie to hear the sentence passed.
_
Then, before Him shall be placed,
That whereon the verdict’s based,
Book wherein each deed is traced.
_
When the Judge His seat shall gain,
All that’s hidden shall be plain,
Nothing shall unjudged remain.
_
Wretched man, what can I plead?
Whom to ask to intercede,
When the just much mercy need?
_
You, O awe-inspiring Lord,
Saving e’en when unimplored,
Save me, mercy’s fount adored.
_
O sweet Jesus, mindful be,
That You came on earth for me:
Cast me not from You this day.
_
Seeking me Your strength was spent
Ransoming Your limbs were rent:
Is this toil to no intent?
_
You, awarding pains condign,
Mercy’s ear to me incline,
Ere the reckoning You assign.
_
I, felon-like, my lot bewail,
Suffused cheeks my shame unveil:
God! O let my prayer prevail.
_
Mary’s soul You fashioned white,
And did to heaven the thief invite;
Hope in me these now excite.
_
Prayers of mine in vain ascend:
You are good and will forefend,
In quenchless fire my life to end.
_
When the cursed by shame oppressed,
Enter flames at Your behest,
Call me then to join the blessed.
_
Place amid Your sheep accord,
Keep me from the tainted horde,
Set me in Your sight, O Lord.
_
Prostrate, suppliant, now no more
Unrepenting, as of yore,
Save me dying, I implore.
_
Mournful day that day of sighs,
When from dust shall man arise,
Stained with guilt his doom to know,
_
Mercy, Lord, on him bestow.
Jesus, kind! Your souls release,
Led them thence to realms of peace.
Amen.

[Evangelium]
Continuation + of the Holy Gospel according to John
!John 6:51-55
At that time, Jesus said to the multitudes of the Jews, I am the living bread that has come down from heaven. If anyone eat of this bread he shall live forever; and the bread that I will give is My Flesh for the life of the world. The Jews on that account argued with one another, saying, How can this man give us His Flesh to eat? Jesus therefore said to them, Amen, amen, I say to you, unless you eat the Flesh of the Son of Man, and drink His Blood, you shall not have life in you. He who eats My Flesh and drinks My Blood has life everlasting and I will raise him up on the last day.

[Offertorium]
O Lord, Jesus Christ, King of glory, deliver the souls of all the faithful departed from the pains of hell and the deep pit; deliver them from the lion’s mouth, that hell engulf them not, nor they fall into darkness, but that Michael, the holy standard-bearer, bring them into the holy light * which You once promised to Abraham and his seed.
V. We offer You, O Lord, sacrifices and prayers of praise; accept them for those souls whom we this day commemorate; grant them, O Lord, to pass from death to the life * which You once promised to Abraham and his seed.

[Secreta]
Look mercifully, we beseech You, O Lord, upon the sacrificial gifts we offer You for the souls of Your servants and handmaids; and since You have given them the merit of Christian faith, also grant them its reward.
$Per Dominum

[Communio]
!4 Esdr 2:35; 2:34
May light eternal shine upon them, O Lord, with Your Saints forever, for You are kind.
V. Grant them eternal rest, O Lord; and let perpetual light shine upon them: with Your Saints forever, for You are kind.

[Postcommunio]
May the prayers of Your suppliants be helpful to the souls of Your servants and handmaids, we beseech You, O Lord, that You may free them from all sin and make them sharers in Your redemption.
$Qui vivis
