[Rank]
Assumptione Beatae Mariae Virginis;;Duplex I classis cum Octava Communi;;6.5;;ex C11

[Rule]
ex C11;
9 lectiones
Psalmi Dominica
Antiphonas Horas
Doxology=Nat

[Ant Vespera]
Mary hath been taken to heaven; * the Angels rejoice; they praise and bless the Lord;;109
The Virgin Mary hath been taken into the chamber on high, * where the King of kings sitteth on a throne amid the stars;;112
We run after thee, on the scent of thy perfumes * the virgins love thee heartily;;121
Blessed of the Lord art thou, O daughter, * for by thee we have been given to eat of the fruit (of the tree) of Life;;126
Fair and comely art thou, O daughter of Jerusalem, * terrible as a fenced camp set in battle array;;147

[Hymnus Vespera]
v. O Virgin who was first to receive
The Creator’s grace by the spirit,
Who was predestined by the Most High
To bear in her womb the Son.
_
O woman, who was foretold to be
The perpetual enemy of the demon;
Who alone was filled with grace,
Undefiled from conception.
_
Thou who conceives Life itself in thy womb,
Life that was lost by Adam;
Furnishing the divine Victim,
A body for his sacrifice.
_
Death, the recompense for sin,
Had no victory over thee, and now departs;
And then thou hastened bodily to heaven
To be thy loving Son’s companion.
_
Illuminated by so great a Glory,
All nature is raised up;
And in thee is called to reach
The pinnacle of all glory and splendour.
_
In thy triumph O our Queen,
Turn thine eyes to us exiles;
That through thy patronage,
We may come to heaven, our blessed homeland.
_
Praise to the Father! praise to Him,
The Virgin’s holy Son!
Praise to the Spirit Paraclete,
While endless ages run! 
Amen.

[Capitulum Vespera]
!Jdt 13:22-23
v. The Lord hath blessed thee by his power, because by thee he hath brought our enemies to nought. Blessed art thou, O daughter, by the Lord the most high God, above all women upon the earth
$Deo gratias

[Versum 1]
V. The holy Mother of God hath been exalted.
R. Over choirs of Angels, into the heavenly kingdom.

[Ant 1]
Maiden most wise, whither goest thou up, like the dawn gloriously rising? * O~
daughter of Zion, thou art all beautiful and pleasant, fair as the moon, clear~
as the sun.

[Oratio]
Almighty everlasting God, who hast taken body and soul into heaven the Immaculate Virgin Mary, Mother of thy Son: grant, we beseech thee, that by steadfastly keeping heaven as our goal we may be counted worthy to join her in glory
$Per eumdem

[Invit]
O come let us worship the King of kings. * This day was His Mother taken to the heavens above.

[Hymnus Matutinum]
Arise! the cold blasts from earth have receded,
And in the field are lovely flowers smiling,
For thee, O gracious Mother, bearer of Life,
Arise, O Mary!
_
Beautiful Lily blooming 'mid the brambles,
Death's haughty author thou alone didst conquer,
Plucking life-giving tree of fruits the fathers
By sin did not taste.
_
Ark of sweet wood not destined for ruin,
Holding the manna, whence springeth forth the power
Summoning forth the bones again arisen
From depths of the tomb.
_
Thou handmaid, faithful to the Ruler of hearts,
Thy flesh cruel decay could never touch,
Thy soul of Spirit partaking without end,
Hath winged to the stars.
_
Leaning on thy beloved, arise, go heav'nward!
Accept the crown with stars for thee bedecked,
List to the hymn thy children sing on this day,
Calling thee blessed.
_
Praise to the Triune Godhead everlasting,
Who hath caused thee, O Virgin, to be crowned,
And providently willed our Queen thou shouldst be
Also our Mother.
Amen.

[Ant Matutinum]
The holy Mother of God is exalted over choirs of Angels * into the heavenly kingdom. O Lord our Ruler;;8
Through thee have the gates of Paradise been thrown open to us, * O thou who this day dost triumph so gloriously among the Angels;;18
Blessed art thou among women, * and blessed is the Fruit of thy womb;;23
V. The holy Mother of God is exalted
R. Over choirs of Angels into the heavenly kingdom.
In thy comeliness and thy beauty, * go forward, fare prosperously, and reign.;;44
God shall give her the help of His countenance; * God is in the midst of her, she shall not be moved;;45
O Holy Mother of God * all we who dwell in thee are in gladness;;86
V. Mary hath been taken to heaven the Angels rejoice
R. They praise and bless the Lord.
O Virgin Mary, thou hast trampled down all the heresies in the whole world.;;95
Holy Virgin, my praise by thee accepted be; * give me strength against thine enemies;;96
After thy delivery thou still remainest a virgin * undefiled; Mother of God, pray for us;;97
V. The Virgin Mary hath been taken into the chamber on high.
R. Where the King of kings sitteth on a throne amid the stars.

[Lectio1]
Lesson from the book of Genesis
!Gen 3:9-15
9 And the Lord God called Adam, and said to him: Where art thou? 
10 And he said: I heard thy voice in paradise; and I was afraid, because I was naked, and I hid myself.
11 And he said to him: And who hath told thee that thou wast naked, but that thou hast eaten of the tree whereof I commanded thee that thou shouldst not eat? 
12 And Adam said: The woman, whom thou gavest me to be my companion, gave me of the tree, and I did eat. 
13 And the Lord God said to the woman: Why hast thou done this? And she answered: The serpent deceived me, and I did eat. 
14 And the Lord God said to the serpent: Because thou hast done this thing, thou art cursed among all cattle, and beasts of the earth: upon thy breast shalt thou go, and earth shalt thou eat all the days of thy life. 
15 I will put enmities between thee and the woman, and thy seed and her seed: she shall crush thy head, and thou shalt lie in wait for her heel. 

[Responsory1]
R. I saw her, when, fair like a dove, she winged her flight above the rivers of~
waters. The priceless savour of her perfumes hung heavy in her garments.
* And about her it was as the flower of roses in the spring of the year, and~
lilies of the valleys. 
V. Who is this that cometh out of the wilderness like a pillar of smoke,~
perfumed with myrrh and frankincense? 
R. And about her it was as the flower of roses in the spring of the year, and~
lilies of the valleys.

[Lectio2]
!1 Cor 15:20-26
20 But now Christ is risen from the dead, the firstfruits of them that sleep:
21 For by a man came death, and by a man the resurrection of the dead. 
22 And as in Adam all die, so also in Christ all shall be made alive. 
23 But every one in his own order: the firstfruits Christ, then they that are of Christ, who have believed in his coming. 
24 Afterwards the end, when he shall have delivered up the kingdom to God and the Father, when he shall have brought to nought all principality, and power, and virtue. 
25 For he must reign, until he hath put all his enemies under his feet.
26 And the enemy death shall be destroyed last: For he hath put all things under his feet. And whereas he saith, 

[Responsory2]
R. I was exalted like a cedar in Lebanon, and as a cypress-tree upon Mount Zion.~
Like the best myrrh
* I yielded a pleasant odour.
V. Like cinnamon and sweet balsam.
R. I yielded a pleasant odour.

[Lectio3]
!1 Cor 15:53-57
53 For this corruptible must put on incorruption; and this mortal must put on immortality. 
54 And when this mortal hath put on immortality, then shall come to pass the saying that is written: Death is swallowed up in victory. 
55 O death, where is thy victory? O death, where is thy sting?
56 Now the sting of death is sin: and the power of sin is the law. 
57 But thanks be to God, who hath given us the victory through our Lord Jesus Christ.

[Responsory3]
R. Who is this that cometh up like the sun? This, comely as Jerusalem?
* The daughters of Zion saw her, and called her blessed; the queens also, and~
they praised her.
V. And about her it was as the flower of roses in the spring of the year, and~
lilies of the valleys.
R. The daughters of Zion saw her, and called her blessed; the queens also, and~
they praised her.
&Gloria
R. The daughters of Zion saw her, and called her blessed; the queens also, and~
they praised her.

[Lectio4]
From the Sermons of St John of Damascus.
!2nd on the Falling-on-sleep of Blessed Mary.
This day the holy and animated Ark of the living God, which had held within it~
its own Maker, is borne to rest in that Temple of the Lord, which is not made~
with hands. David, whence it sprang, leapeth before it, and in company with~
him the Angels dance, the Archangels sing aloud, the Virtues ascribe glory, the~
Princedoms shout for joy, the Powers make merry, the Lordships rejoice, the~
Thrones keep holiday, the Cherubim utter praise, and the Seraphim proclaim its~
glory. This day the Eden of the new Adam receiveth the living garden of delight,~
wherein the condemnation was annulled, wherein the Tree of Life was planted,~
wherein our nakedness was covered.

[Responsory4]
R. When the Lord beheld the daughter of Jerusalem adorned with her jewels, He~
greatly desired her beauty
* And when the daughters of Zion saw her, they cried out that she was most~
blessed, saying thy name is as ointment poured forth.
V. Upon thy right hand did stand the Queen in a vesture of gold wrought about~
with divers colours.
R. And when the daughters of Zion saw her, they cried out that she was most~
blessed, saying thy name is as ointment poured forth.

[Lectio5]
This day the stainless maiden, who had been defiled by no earthly lust, but~
ermobled by heavenly desires, returned not to dust, but, being herself a living~
heaven, took her place among the heavenly mansions. From her true life had~
flowed for all men, and how should she taste of death? But she yielded obedience~
to the law established by Him to Whom she had given birth, and, as the daughter~
of the old Adam, underwent the old sentence, which even her Son, Who is the very~
Life Itself, had not refused; but, as the Mother of the living God, she was~
worthily taken by Him unto Himself.

[Responsory5]
R. All generations shall call me blessed. For
* He That is Mighty, even the Lord, hath done to me great things; and Holy is~
His Name.
V. And His mercy is on them that fear Him, from generation to generation.
R. He That is Mighty, even the Lord, hath done to me great things; and Holy is~
His Name.

[Lectio6]
From the Acts of Pope Pius XII
!Assumption of Mary Most Holy, November 1, 1950
Since indeed the universal Church hath at all times and throughout the ages manifested faith in the bodily Assumption of the Blessed Virgin Mary, and since the Bishops of the whole world by an almost unanimous agreement have petitioned that this truth, which is enshrined in Sacred Scripture and deeply rooted in the souls of Christ's faithful, and is also truly in accord with other revealed truths, should be defined as a dogma of the divine and Catholick Faith, Pope Pius XII, acceding to the requests of the whole Church, decreed that this privilege of the Blessed Virgin Mary be solemnly proclaimed, and thus, on the first day of November of the year of the Great Jubilee, nineteen hundred and fifty, at Rome, in the open square before the Basilica of St. Peter, surrounded by a throng of many Cardinals and Bishops of the Holy Roman Church who had come from distant parts of the earth, and before a great multitude of the faithful, with the whole Catholick world rejoicing, proclaimed in these words and with infallible statement the bodily Assumption of the Blessed Virgin Mary into heaven : Wherefore, having offered to God continual prayers of supplication, and having invoked the light of the Spirit of Truth, to the glory of Almighty God who hath enriched the Virgin Mary with his special favour ; in honour of his Son, the immortal King of ages and victor over sin and death ; for the increase of the glory of the same august Mother, and for the joy and exultation of the whole Church, by the authority of Our Lord Jesus Christ, of the holy Apostles Peter and Paul, and by our own authority, we pronounce, declare and define it to be a divinely revealed dogma that : The Immaculate Mother of God, Mary ever Virgin, was, at the end of her earthly life, assumed body and soul into heavenly glory. 

[Responsory6]
R. Blessed art thou, O Virgin Mary, who hast carried the Lord, the Maker of the~
world.
* Thou hast borne Him Who created thee, and thou abidest a virgin for ever.
V. Hail, Mary, full of grace. The Lord is with thee.
R. Thou hast borne Him Who created thee, and thou abidest a virgin for ever.
&Gloria
R. Thou hast borne Him Who created thee, and thou abidest a virgin for ever.

[Lectio7]	
From the Holy Gospel according to Luke
!Luke 1:41-50
At that time : Elisabeth was filled with the Holy Ghost: and she spake out with a loud voice, and said, Blessed art thou among women.  And so on.
_
A Homily by St. Peter Canisius the Priest
!De Maria Deipara Virgine, lib. 5, c. 6
The Church frequently and reverently keepeth feastdays dedicated to the Mother of God, realizing that it is a work pleasing to God and worthy of the faithful if many feasts, with fixed dates and public ceremonies, are celebrated in honour of the most blessed of all the blessed in heaven, the Mother of our Lord and God.  Among all these feasts which have been celebrated so devotedly for so many years, even unto the present day, the Feast of the Assumption is considered the greatest and holdeth chief place.  Indeed there was no happier or more joyful day for Mary, if we duly consider the happiness of both body and soul granted to her on that day.  Then especially, as never before, her spirit, soul and body rejoiced wondrously in the living God and she could rightfully say : He hath regarded the lowliness of his handmaiden ; for behold, all generations shall call me blessed ; for he that is mighty hath magnified me.


[Responsory7]
R. Grace is poured into thy lips
* Therefore God hath blessed thee for ever.
V. thy garments smell of myrrh, and aloes, and cassia, out of the ivory palaces~
whereby kings' daughters among thy honourable women have made thee glad.
R. Therefore God hath blessed thee for ever.

[Lectio8]
O thrice blessed and truly august Mother, it is for this reason that we who love thee and thy Son cannot refrain from congratulating thee with all sincerity upon thine admirable and incomparable happiness, especially since everything that hath been said to thee and about thee by the Lord, is brought to a conclusion by thy beautiful passing away from this life, and in every wise hath been perfectly fulfilled.  Blessed art thou who hast not only believed but hast this day attained unto the end of faith and the fruit of all virtue, and now at last hast merited to enjoy the most pleasing sight of him whom thou didst love and desire so greatly.  Thyself a guest, thou didst receive Emmanuel who as a guest did enter into thee, as into a mighty fortress in this world ; and today, thou in turn art received by him into his royal mansion, and magnificently welcomed with the highest honour, as befitteth one found worthy to be the Mother of such a Solomon.

[Responsory8]
R. O Virgin Mary, Mother of God, blessed art thou that didst believe the Lord,~
for there hath been a performance of those things which were told thee from the~
Lord. Behold, thou art exalted over choirs of Angels.
* Plead for us with the Lord our God.
V. Hail, Mary, full of grace, the Lord is with thee.
R. Plead for us with the Lord our God.
&Gloria
R. Plead for us with the Lord our God.

[Lectio9]
O blessed day which sent so precious a gift from the desert of this world, and carried it to the holy and eternal city, so that universal and unheard of joy no less than admiration welled up in all the blessed in heaven.  O blessed day, that fulfilled the long and ardent yearning of the gentle spouse, so that she might find what she had sought, that she might receive what she asked ; that what she awaited she might possess securely, resting safely at last in that perfect vision and inward joy of the eternal and all-great Goodness.  O blessed day which raised up and so highly exalted this most humble handmaiden of the Lord that she might become the most glorious Queen of Heaven and the mistress of the world.  Indeed she could not have risen to more sublime heights since she had been elevated to the very Throne of the heavenly kingdom, and thus was established in glory next after Christ.  O blessed and truly honourable is this day which constituted and confirmed for us a Queen and Mother who is at once powerful and merciful in the kingdom of God, that we might have her, who ever remaineth the Mother of the Judge, as a Mother of mercy protecting us and interceding for us with Christ, unceasingly watching over the work of our salvation.
&teDeum

[Ant Laudes]
Mary hath been taken to heaven; * the Angels rejoice; they praise and bless the Lord.
The Virgin Mary hath been taken into the chamber on high, * where the King of kings sitteth on a throne amid the stars.
We run after thee, on the scent of thy perfumes * the virgins love thee heartily.
Blessed of the Lord art thou, O daughter, * for bythee we have been given to eat of the fruit (of the tree) of Life.
Fair and comely art thou, O daughter of Jerusalem, * terrible as a fenced camp set in battle array.

[Capitulum Laudes]
!Jdt 13:22-23
v. The Lord hath blessed thee by his power, because by thee he hath brought our enemies to nought. Blessed art thou, O daughter, by the Lord the most high God, above all women upon the earth
$Deo gratias

[Hymnus Laudes]
v. O Virgin, clothed by the sun's rays
A crown of twelve stars upon thy head;
The moon is made thy footstool:
Thou glorious radiant one!
_
O woman who subdues hell and death,
From the side of Christ, eagerly watching over us;
Heaven and earth glorifies
Their mighty queen.
_
But the terrible serpant persists
In threatening the people now given to thee;
Merciful Mother, come to our aid,
And break the necks of the malignant.
_
Protect the followers of the divinely inspired faith;
Lead those who go astray back to the holy sheepfold:
Protect all nations from the shadow of death,
Gathering them from everywhere.
_
Gracious pardon we beg for us sinners,
Give aid the helpless and afflicted;
To all who fearfully tremble, be the light
Which promises sure hope of salvation.
_
Continual praise be to the most high Trinity,
Who to thee, O Virgin, bestow the crown;
Thus establishing thee as our Queen
And provident Mother. 
Amen.

[Versum 2]
V. The holy Mother of God hath been exalted.
R. Over choirs of Angels, into the heavenly kingdom.

[Ant 2]
Who is she * that cometh up like the rising dawn, * fair as the moon, clear as~
the sun, terrible as a fenced camp set in battle array?

[Capitulum Tertia]
!Jdt 13:22-23
v. The Lord hath blessed thee by his power, because by thee he hath brought our enemies to nought. Blessed art thou, O daughter, by the Lord the most high God, above all women upon the earth
$Deo gratias

[Responsory Tertia]
R.br. The holy Mother of God hath been exalted
R. The holy Mother of God hath been exalted
V. Over choirs of Angels, into the heavenly kingdom.
R. Hath been exalted.
&Gloria
R. The holy Mother of God hath been exalted
_
V. Mary hath been taken to heaven; the Angels rejoice
R. They praise and bless the Lord.

[Capitulum Sexta]
!Jdt 13:24-25
v. Blessed be the Lord, because he hath so magnified thy name this day, that thy praise shall not depart out of the mouth of men.
$Deo gratias

[Responsory Sexta]
R.br. Mary hath been taken to heaven * the Angels rejoice
R. Mary hath been taken to heaven * the Angels rejoice
V. They praise and bless the Lord.
R. The Angels rejoice.
&Gloria
R. Mary hath been taken to heaven; the Angels rejoice
_
V. The Virgin Mary hath been taken into the chamber on high,
R. Where the King of kings sitteth on a throne amid the stars.

[Capitulum Nona]
!Jdt 15:10
v. Thou art the glory of Jerusalem, thou art the joy of Israel, thou art the honour of our people.
$Deo gratias

[Responsory Nona]
R.br. The Virgin Mary hath been taken into the chamber on high.
R. The Virgin Mary hath been taken into the chamber on high.
V. Where the King of kings sitteth on a throne amid the stars.
R. On high.
&Gloria
R. The Virgin Mary hath been taken into the chamber on high.
_
V. Holy Virgin, my praise by thee accepted be.
R. Give me strength against thine enemies.

[Hymnus Vespera 3]
@Commune/C11:Hymnus Vespera

[Versum 3]
V. The holy Mother of God hath been exalted.
R. Over choirs of Angels, into the heavenly kingdom.

[Ant 3]
Today the Blessed Virgin Mary * ascended to the heaven, rejoice, she reigns with Christ forever.

[Octava 1]
!Commemoratio Octavae Assumptionis B.M.V.
Ant. Today the Blessed Virgin Mary * ascedat to the heaven, rejoice, she reigns with Christ forever.
_
V. The holy Mother of God hath been exalted.
R. Over choirs of Angels, into the heavenly kingdom.
_
$Oremus
O Lord, we beseech thee, forgive the transgressions of thy servants, and, forasmuch as by our own deeds we cannot please thee, may we find safety through the prayers of the Mother of thy Son and our Lord
$Qui tecum

[Octava 2]
!Commemoratio Octavae Assumptionis B.M.V.
Ant. Who is she * that cometh up like the rising dawn, * fair as the moon, clear as the sun, terrible as a fenced camp set in battle array?
_
V. The holy Mother of God hath been exalted.
R. Over choirs of Angels, into the heavenly kingdom.
_
$Oremus
O Lord, we beseech thee, forgive the transgressions of thy servants, and, forasmuch as by our own deeds we cannot please thee, may we find safety through the prayers of the Mother of thy Son and our Lord
$Qui tecum
