[Rank]
Die II infra octavam Pentecostes;;Duplex I classis;;6;;ex Pasc7-0

[RankNewcal]
Feria II post Pentecostes;;Feria;;1;;

[Rule]
ex Pasc7-0;
1 nocturn;
Psalmi Dominica;
Antiphonas horas
Hymnus Tertia
No commemoration

[Ant Matutinum]
Suddenly there came a sound from heaven * as of a rushing mighty wind. Alleluia, Alleluia;;47
Strengthen, O God, that which Thou hast wrought for us, * because of thy holy Temple at Jerusalem. Alleluia, Alleluia;;67
Send forth thy Spirit, and they shall be created * and Thou shalt renew the face of the earth. Alleluia, Alleluia;;103
V. The Spirit of the Lord filleth the world. Alleluia.
R. And That Which containeth all things hath knowledge oil the voice. Alleluia.

[Lectio1]
Evangélium szent János Apostol kõnyvébõl
!John 3:16-21
Azon idõben mondá Jézus Nicodémusnak: Mert úgy szerette Isten a világot, hogy egyszülött Fiát adta oda, hogy aki hisz benne, az el ne vesszen, hanem örökké éljen. És így tovább.
_
Homily by St Austin, Bishop of Hippo
!12th Tract on John
The Physician cometh that, as often as in him lieth, he may heal the sick man. He is his own destroyer who will not keep the commandments of the Physician.~
Into the world came the Saviour. Why is He called the Saviour of the world but because He came "into the world not to condemn the world, but that the world through Him might be saved"? If thou wiliest not be saved through Him, thou wilt be condemned of thyself. And why say I that thou wilt be condemned Because it is written " He that believeth in Him is not condemned." What then canst thou hope that He will say of " him that believeth not," but that He will be condemned And indeed He doth say farther " He that believeth not is condemned already." He is con, demned already, though the condemnation be not yet openly pronounced.

[Responsory1]
R. Henceforth I call you not servants, but I have called you My friends because ye have known all things, whatsoever I have done among you. Alleluia.
* Receive ye the Holy Ghost, Who is your Comforter within you the Same is He Whom the Father will send unto you. Alleluia.
V. Ye are My friends, if ye do whatsoever I command you.
R. Receive ye the Holy Ghost Who is your Comforter within you the Same is He Whom the Father will send unto you. Alleluia.

[Lectio2]
He is condemned already, for " the Lord knoweth them that are His." He knoweth them for whom is laid up the crown, and likewise them that are reserved unto the fire. His eye seeth in the field of the world the distinction of the wheat and of the straw, of the n and of the tares. " He that believeth not is condemned already." And why " Because he hath not believed in the Name of the Only-begotten Son of God. And this is the condemnation that light is come into the world, and men loved darkness rather than light, because their deeds were evil." " Because their deeds were evil " but, my brethren, is there one man of whom God findeth that his works are good No, not one. God findeth all works to be (in themselves) bad. How then do we hear that some there be who do truth, and come to the light For these words come anon " But he that doeth truth, cometh to the light."

[Responsory2]
R. The Holy Ghost, Which proceedeth from the Throne, entered unseen into the hearts of the Apostles, with a new token of sanctification, even
* That all manner of tongues should spring to their lips. Alleluia.
V. The fire of God fell, not to burn them, but to enlighten them, and gave them gifts of grace.
R. That all manner of tongues should spring to their lips. Alleluia.
&Gloria
R. That all manner of tongues should spring to their lips. Alleluia.

[Lectio3]
But the Lord saith [of such as these, who are condemned already, because they believe not in Him] " They loved darkness rather than light." And here He maketh the great point [of difference between such, and them that do the truth.] There are many who have loved their sins there are many who have confessed their sins and he that confessed and denounceth his sin, is working already with God. God denounceth thy sins, and if thou denounce them likewise, then dost thou join thyself with God in His act. The man and the sinner are two different~
things. God made the man, and the man made the sinner. Put away thy work, and God will save His. Thou art behoven to hate in thyself thine own work, and to love God's work. When thine own works begin to displease thee, then is it that thou beginnest to do well, because thou denouncest thine own evil works. The first thing to do, if thou wouldest do good works, is to acknowledge thine evil ones.
&teDeum

[Ant 2]
God so loved the world * that He gave His Only-begotten Son, that whosoever believeth in Him should not perish, but have everlasting life. Alleluia.

[Oratio]
O God, Who didst give thine Holy Spirit unto thine Apostles, grant unto thy people the effectual fruit of their godly supplications, and as Thou hast given them faith, give them also peace.
$Per Dominum eiusdem

[Ant 3]
If a Man love Me * he will keep My word and My Father will love him, and We will come unto him, and make Our abode with him. Alleluia.
