[Rank]
Sabbato Sancto;;Feria privilegiata, Duplex I classis;;7

[Rule]
Psalmi minores Dominica
Antiphonas horas
Omit Incipit Invitatorium Hymnus Capitulum Lectio Commemoratio Preces Suffragium Conclusion
Limit Benedictiones
9 lectiones 1960
Capitulum Versum 2
Minores sine Antiphona 

[Ant Matutinum]
In peace in the self same I will sleep, and I will rest;;4
He shall dwell in thy tabernacle, He shall rest in thy holy hill;;14
My flesh also shall rest in hope;;15
V. In peace in the self same
R. I will sleep, and I will rest
Lift up your gates, O eternal gates, and the King of Glory shall enter in.;;23
I believe to see the good things of the Lord in the land of the living;;26
O Lord, Thou hast brought forth, my soul from hell;;29
V. But thou, O Lord, have mercy on me,
R. And raise my up again: and I will requite them.
For behold God is my helper: and the Lord is the protector of my soul;;53
And his place is in peace: and his abode in Sion:;;75
I am become as a man without help, free among the dead;;87
V. And his place is in peace:
R. And his abode in Sion

[Lectio1]
Olvasmány Jeremiás próféta siralmainak könyvébõl
!Lam 3:22-30
22 Az Úr irgalma nem fogyott el egészen; jósága és kegyelme még nem merült ki. 
23 Minden reggel újjáéled, nagy az õ hûsége. 
24 "Az Úr az én osztályrészem - mondja a lelkem -, ezért hát remélek benne." 
25 Akik benne bíznak, azokhoz jó az Úr, a lélekhez, amely õt keresi. 
26 Jó csendben várni az Úrra, mert õ megszabadít. 
27 Jó az embernek, ha igát hordoz ifjúságától fogva. 
28 Üljön le a magányban és hallgasson, amikor ráteszi az Úr; 
29 szája érjen le a földig. Talán még van remény. 
30 Tartsa oda arcát annak, aki üti, teljen el gyalázattal. 
r. Jerusalem, Jerusalem, térj meg Uradhoz Istenedhez.

[Responsory1]
R. He was led as a sheep to the slaughter, threated him as evil, did not open his mouth, he was delivered to death
* To make alive His people
V. He hath delivered his soul unto death, and was reputed with the wicked:
R. To make alive His people

[Lectio2]
!Lam 4:1-8
1 Ó, hogy elhomályosult az arany; megfeketedett a színarany. Szerteszórva hevernek a szentély kövei minden utcasarkon. 
2 Sion fiait, akiknek értéke színarannyal ért fel, agyagedénynek tekintették, fazekas keze mûvének. 
3 Még a sakálok is odanyújtják emlõiket, hogy kicsinyeiket táplálják; de népem leánya kegyetlen, mint a struccmadár a sivatagban. 
4 A csecsemõnek a szomjúságtól az ínyéhez tapad a nyelve. Az apró gyermekek kenyeret kérnek, de nincs, aki megtörje nekik. 
5 Akik egykor jóízû ételeket ettek, most ott hevernek holtan az utcákon. És akik bíborruhában nõttek fel, a szemétdombot ölelik. 
6 Nagyobb volt népem leányának vétke Szodomának bûnénél, amely elpusztult egy szempillantás alatt anélkül, hogy bárki fölemelte volna ellene a kezét. 
r. Jerusalem, Jerusalem, térj meg Uradhoz Istenedhez.

[Responsory2]
R. Arise Jerusalem, put off the garments of joy, dress into as and sackcloth,
* Savior Israel is killed in your city
V. Let tears run down like a torrent day and night: and let not the apple of thy eye cease.
R. Savior Israel is killed in your city

[Lectio3]
!Lam 5:1-11
1 Emlékezz, Uram, arra, ami velünk történt, nézz le ránk és vedd tekintetbe gyalázatunkat! 
2 Örökrészünk idegenek kezére került, házainkat mások birtokolják. 
3 Apátlan árvák lettünk; az anyák olyanok, mint az özvegyek. 
4 Saját vizünket pénzért isszuk, és meg kell fizetnünk a saját fánkért. 
5 Igát hordozunk nyakunkon; üldöznek bennünket; már a végünket járjuk; nincsen nyugalmunk. 
6 Egyiptom felé nyújtottuk ki kezünket, és Asszíria felé, hogy kenyérhez jussunk. 
7 Atyáink vétkeztek, de nincsenek többé, mi viseljük vétkeik terhét. 
8 Szolgák uralkodnak rajtunk, és nincs, ki megszabadítson kezükbõl. 
9 Életünk kockáztatásával szerezzük be kenyerünket, szembeszállva a pusztában a karddal. 
10 Bõrünk úgy izzik, mint a kemence az égetõ éhségtõl. 
11 Az asszonyokat meggyalázták Sionban, a szüzeket Júda városaiban. 
r. Jerusalem, Jerusalem, térj meg Uradhoz Istenedhez.

[Responsory3]
R. Lament like a virgin my nation, howl ye shepherds in ashes and sackcloth
* Behold. the beautiful day of the Lord cometh
V. Gird yourselves, and lament, O ye priests, howl, ye ministers of the altars: go in, lie in sackcloth
R. Behold. the beautiful day of the Lord cometh
&Gloria
R. Lament like a virgin my nation, howl ye shepherds in ashes and sackcloth, * Behold, the beutiful day of the Lord cometh

[Lectio4]
From the Treatise of St Austin, Bishop (of Hippo,) Upon the Psalms
!On Psalm lxiii. 7.
We shall attain to thoughts that are very deep: but God shall still be exalted. The enemies of our Lord had communed of laying snares privily; they had said, Who shall see them? They had searched out iniquities; they had accomplished a diligent search. And Man attained even unto (the realisation of) their counsels, for the Lord, as Man, suffered Himself to be taken. For He had not been taken at all, unless He had been a Man, or seen, unless He had been a Man, or smitten, unless He had been a Man, or crucified, unless He had been a Man, or have died, unless He had been a Man. Man therefore, He attained unto all those sufferings, which had had nothing in Him, unless He had been a Man. But if He had not been Man, man had not been redeemed. And the Lord as Man attained to thoughts that were very deep, yea, secret; showing the Manhood to the eyes of men, and keeping the Godhead within Him; veiling the form of God, as touching Which, He is Equal to the Father, and manifesting the form of a servant, as touching which, He is inferior to the Father.

[Responsory4]
R. Our Shepherd, even the Fountain of living waters, is gone from us; He passed away, and the sun was darkened.
* For now hath our Saviour bound him captive, which bound the first man captive; this day hath He burst the gates and bars of death.
V. The bands of hell He hath utterly abolished, and hath done away the power of the devil.
R. For now hath our Saviour bound him captive, which bound the first man captive; this day hath He burst the gates and bars of death.

[Lectio5]
How far did the accomplishment of their diligent search reach? Even to the setting a watch of soldiers at the sepulchre, to guard the Lord, even after He was dead and buried. For they said unto Pilate : Sir, we remember that that deceiver (Matth. xxvii. 63.) This was the term by which they designated the Lord Jesus Christ, and the remembrance that He was so named is a sweet consolation to us His servants, when we are called impostors. So they said unto Pilate, that deceiver said, while He was yet alive : After three days I will rise again. Command therefore that the sepulchre be made sure until the third day, lest His disciples come and steal Him away, and say unto the people : He is risen again from the dead : so the last error shall be worse than the first. Pilate said unto them : Ye have a watch; go your way; make it as sure as ye can. So they went and made the sepulchre sure, sealing the stone, and setting a watch.

[Responsory5]
R. O all ye that pass by, behold and see
* If there be any sorrow like unto my sorrow.
V. O all ye nations, behold, and see my sorrow,
R. If there be any sorrow like unto my sorrow.

[Lectio6]
So they went, and made the sepulchre sure, sealing the stone, and setting a watch and anon, behold, there was a great earthquake, and the Lord arose. So great wonders were wrought about the sepulchre that the very soldiers, which were put to guard it, were witnesses thereto, if only they would have told the truth. But the same love of money which had made a slave of that disciple who was a companion of Christ, made slaves also of the soldiers that were put to watch His sepulchre. Some of the watch came into the city, and showed unto the chief- priests all the things that were done : and when they were assembled with the elders, and had taken counsel, they gave large money unto the soldiers, saying : Say ye, His disciples came by night and stole Him away while we slept. In good sooth, their diligent search had been accomplished and ended before this. What didst thou say, O stupid cunning? Wast thou indeed so utterly void of the light of godly wisdom, and confounded in the bottomless pit of thine own falsehood as to tell them to say : His disciples came by night, and stole Him away while we slept? Part of the testimony of thine eye-witnesses was that they were asleep at the time : thou thyself wast asleep not to be able to see that on their own testimony, their testimony must have been worthless.

[Responsory6]
R. Behold how the righteous dieth, and no man taketh it to heart; and the just are taken away, and none considereth. From the midst of sinners is the righteous translated;
* And his memory is in peace.
V. As a lamb before his shearers is dumb, so He opened not His mouth; He was taken from prison and from judgment.
R. And his memory is in peace.
&Gloria
R. Behold how the righteous dieth, and no man taketh it to heart; and the just are taken away, and none considereth. From the midst of sinners is the righteous translated; * And his memory is in peace.

[Lectio7]
Szent Pál Apostol zsidokhoz irott levelébõl
!Heb 9:11-14
11 Krisztus azonban a ránk váró javak fõpapjaként jött el, s belépett abba a nagyobb és tökéletesebb sátorba, amelyet nem ember keze alkotott, vagyis nem ebbõl a világból való. 
12 Nem a bakok vagy borjak vérével, hanem saját vérével lépett be egyszer s mindenkorra a szentélybe, és örök megváltást szerzett. 
13 Ha ugyanis a bakok és bikák vére meg az üszõ hamva a tisztátalanokra hintve külsõleg tisztává teszi õket, 
14 mennyivel inkább megtisztítja lelkiismeretünket a holt cselekedetektõl Krisztus vére, aki az örök Lélek által saját magát adta tiszta áldozatul az Istennek, hogy az élõ Istennek szolgáljunk. 

[Responsory7]
R. The kings of the earth stood up: and the princes assembled together
* Against the Lord and his Christ.
V. Why did the Gentiles rage: and the people meditate vain things?
R. Against the Lord and his Christ.

[Lectio8]
!Heb 9:15-18
15 Ezért õ új szövetség közvetítõje. Elõbb azonban a régi szövetség korában elkövetett bûnök megváltásáért el kellett szenvednie a halált, hogy a meghívottak elnyerjék az örökké tartó örökséget. 
16 Ahol ugyanis van végrendelet, elõbb bizonyítani kell a végrendelkezõ halálát, 
17 hiszen a végrendelet csak halál esetén jogerõs; addig, amíg a végrendelkezõ él, nem érvényes. 
18 Ezért az elsõ szövetséget sem kötötték vér nélkül. 

[Responsory8]
R. I am counted among them that go down to the pit:
* I am become as a man without help, free among the dead.
V. They have laid me in the lower pit: in the dark places, and in the shadow of death.
R. I am become as a man without help, free among the dead.

[Lectio9]
!Heb 9:19-22
19 Miután ugyanis Mózes - a törvény elõírása szerint - minden rendelkezést felolvasott az egész nép elõtt, vette a bakok és borjak vérét a vízzel, majd vörös gyapjúval és izsóppal meghintette magát a könyvet és az egész népet, 
20 e szavakkal: "Ez annak a szövetségnek a vére, amelyet az Isten veletek kötött." 
21 Azután meghintette vérrel a sátort és az összes istentiszteleti edényt is. 
22 Sõt a törvény szerint majdnem mindent vérrel tisztítanak meg, és vérontás nélkül nincs bûnbocsánat. 

[Responsory9]
R. After the Lord was buried, the monument was signed and a stone was rolled to the door of the sepulchre
* And they sent soldiers to watch the monument
V. the chief priests and the Pharisees came together to Pilate
R. And they sent soldiers to watch the monument
&Gloria
R. After the Lord was buried, the monument was signed and a stone was rolled to the door of the sepulchre * And they sent soldiers to watch the monument

[Ant Laudes]
O death * I will be thy death; O hell, I will be thy bite
They shall mourn for * him as one mourneth for an only son, because the innocent Lord is killed
Attend ye *all ye people, and see my sorrow
O Lord, deliver * my soul from the gates of the hell;;222
O all ye * that pass by the way, attend, and see if there be any sorrow like to my sorrow

[Versum 2]
V. My flesh shall rest in hope.
R. Thou shalt not suffer thy holy one to see corruption.

[Ant 2]
The women sitting * at the monument, lamented and wept

[Oratio 2]
v. Christ became obedient for us unto death, even to the death of the cross. For which cause God also hath exalted him, and hath given him a name which is above all names.
!secreto
$Pater noster
!lower voice
&psalm(50)
_
(deinde dicuntur)
Look down, we beseech thee, O Lord, on this thy family, for which our Lord Jesus Christ did not hesitate to be delivered up into the hands of wicked men, and to suffer the torment of the Cross.
!Finish silently
$Qui tecum
(sed rubrica 1955 aut rubrica 1960 loco horum versuum dicuntur)
Grant, we beseech thee, O Almighty God: that we who anticipate the resurrection of thy Son with pious expectation, may obtain the glory of the same resurrection.
!Finish silently
$Per eumdem

[Oratio Matutinum]
Look down, we beseech thee, O Lord, on this thy family, for which our Lord Jesus Christ did not hesitate to be delivered up into the hands of wicked men, and to suffer the torment of the Cross.
!Finish silently
$Qui tecum

[Oratio Matutinum] (rubrica 1955 aut rubrica 1960) 
Grant, we beseech thee, O Almighty God: that we who anticipate the resurrection of thy Son with pious expectation, may obtain the glory of the same resurrection.
!Finish silently
$Per eumdem

[Ant Vespera]
Today I am greatly afflicted, * but tomorrow I will break my bonds.;;115
With them * that hated peace I was peaceable: when I spoke to them they fought against me without cause.;;119
From unjust men deliver me, O Lord.;;139
Keep me * from the snare, which they have laid for me, and from the stumblingblocks of them that work iniquity.;;140
I looked * on my right hand, and beheld, and there was no one that would know me.;;141

[Ant 3]
The chief priests * and the Pharisees made the sepulcher sure, sealing the stone and setting guards.

[Special Completorium] (rubrica 1955 aut rubrica 1960)
!Special Completorium
_
$Confiteor
$Misereatur
$Indulgentiam

&psalm(4)

&psalm(90)

&psalm(133)

&psalm(233)

v. Christ became obedient for us unto death, even to the death of the cross. For which cause God also hath exalted him, and hath given him a name which is above all names.
!secreto
$Pater noster
!lower voice
&psalm(50)
_
Látogasd meg Urunk hajlékunkat, és az ellenség minden cselvetését tartsd távol tõlünk; angyalaid lakjanak velünk akik békében védelmeznek minket; és áldásod legyen velünk mindig.
!Finish silently
$Per Dominum
