Upon the 24th day of April, were born into the better life
_ 
At Sevis, in Switzerland, the holy martyr Faithful of Sigmaringen, of the Order of Friars Minor Capuchins. He had been sent thither to preach the Catholic faith, but was murdered by the heretics, and so attained martyrdom, [in the year 1622,] and was numbered among the holy martyrs by the Supreme Pontiff Benedict XIV. 
At Rome, the holy martyr Saba, a commander of troops. He was accused of visiting the Christians in prison, and freely confessed Christ in the presence of the judge. He was scorched with torches, and thrust I into a vessel of boiling pitch, whence I he came forth unhurt, by the which I marvel seventy men were turned to Christ, who all stood fast to their confession, and were slain with the sword, when after Saba himself was drowned in the river, and so gained the crown of his testimony, [in the year 272.] 
At Lyons, in Gaul, the holy martyr Alexander. In the persecution under the Emperor Antoninus Verus he was imprisoned, and afterwards lashed to such an extent that his inner parts could be seen through holes between his ribs then he was nailed to a cross, and gave up his blessed spirit. There suffered along with him thirtyand-four others, of whom mention is made upon other days. 
Upon the same day, the holy martyrs Eusebius, [said to have been converted by St George,] Neon, Leontius, Longinus, and four others, who were slain with the sword after grievous torments in the persecution under the Emperor Diocletian. 
In England, [in the year 624,] the holy Bishop Mellitus, who was sent into this country by holy Gregory, and converted to the faith the East Saxons and their King. [He was the first Bishop of London, and afterwards of Canterbury.] 
At Elvira, in Spain, the holy Confessor Gregory, Bishop [of that see, about the end of the fourth century.] 
At Brescia, holy Honorius, Bishop of that see, [in the year 586.] 
In Scotland, the holy Priest and monk Egbert. A man of marvellous lowliness and self-denial, [in the year 729,] whose feast we keep upon the 27th day of this present month of April. 
At Rheims, the holy Virgins Bona and Doda, [the first Abbesses of St 
Peter's at Rheims, in the year 673.] 
