[Rank]
S. Ignatii Episcopi et Martyris;;Duplex;;3;;vide C2

[Rank1570]
S. Ignatii Episcopi et Martyris;;Semiduplex;;2;;vide C2

[Rule]
Gloria

[Introitus]
!Gal 6:14
v. God forbid that I should glory, save in the cross of our Lord Jesus Christ: by whom the world is crucified to me, and I to the world.
!Ps 131:1
O Lord, remember David and all his meekness.
&Gloria
v. God forbid that I should glory, save in the cross of our Lord Jesus Christ: by whom the world is crucified to me, and I to the world.

[Oratio]
Be mindful of our weakness, O almighty God, and since the burden of our deeds is grievous to us, grant that the glorious intercession of blessed Ignatius Thy martyr and bishop may protect us.
$Per Dominum

[Lectio]
Olvasmány szent Pál apostol Rómaiakhoz irott levelébõl
!Rom 8:35-39
v. Ki szakíthat el bennünket Krisztus szeretetétõl? Nyomor vagy szükség? Üldöztetés vagy éhínség, ruhátlanság, életveszély vagy kard?  Amint meg van írva: Minket minden idõben teérted irtanak, s vágójuhok módjára tartanak.  De mindezeken diadalmaskodunk õáltala, aki szeret minket.  Biztos vagyok ugyanis benne, hogy sem halál, sem élet, sem angyalok, sem fejedelemségek, sem jelenvalók, sem eljövendõk, sem hatalmasságok,  sem magasság, sem mélység, sem egyéb teremtmény el nem szakíthat bennünket Isten szeretetétõl, amely Krisztus Jézusban, a mi Urunkban van. 

[Graduale]
!Ecclus 44:16, 20.
Behold a great priest, who in his days pleased God.
V. There was not any found the like to him, who kept the law of the Most High. Alleluia, alleluia.
!Gal. 2:19-20
V. With Christ I am nailed to the cross: I live, now not I, but Christ liveth in me. Alleluia.

[Tractus]
!Ecclus 44:16, 20.
Behold a great priest, who in his days pleased God.
V. There was not any found the like to him, who kept the law of the Most High. 
!Ps 20:3 - 4.
Thou hast given him his heart’s desire, and hast not withholden from him the will of his lips.
V. For Thou hast prevented him with blessings of sweetness.
V. Thou hast set on his head a crown of precious stones.

[Evangelium]
Evangélium + szent János Apostol kõnyvébõl
!John 12:24-26
v. Bizony, bizony, mondom nektek: ha a búzaszem nem hull a földbe, és nem hal el, egymaga marad, de ha elhal, sok termést hoz.  Aki szereti életét, az elveszíti, de aki gyûlöli életét ebben a világban, az megmenti az örök életre.  Aki nekem szolgál, az engem kövessen, s ahol én vagyok, ott lesz a szolgám is. Aki nekem szolgál, azt megtiszteli az Atya. 

[Offertorium]
!Ps 8:6-7
Thou hast crowned Him with glory and honor: and hast set Him over the works of Thy hands, O Lord.

[Secreta]
Graciously accept, O Lord, the offerings dedicated unto Thee, through the merits of blessed Ignatius Thy martyr and bishop; grant that they may become our perpetual support.
$Per Dominum

[Communio]
! 
I am the wheat of Christ; may I be ground by the teeth of beasts, that I may be found pure bread.

[Postcommunio]
Refreshed by participation in Thy holy gift, we beseech Thee, O Lord our God, that through the intercession of blessed Ignatius Thy martyr and bishop, we may experience the effect of that which we celebrate.
$Per Dominum
