[Rank]
Jézus körülmetéltetése;;Duplex II classis;;5.1;;ex Sancti/12-25

[Rank] (rubrica 196)
Karácsony nyolcada;;Duplex I classis;;6;;ex Sancti/12-25

[Ant Vespera]
How wonderful is the dealing here! * The Maker of man hath taken to Himself a living body, and hath been pleased to be born of the Virgin He is come forth conceived without seed, and hath made us partakers of His Divine nature;;109
When, in an unspeakable manner, * Thou wast born of a Virgin, the Scriptures were fulfilled; to save man, Thou camest down as dew upon the fleece we praise thee, O our God!;;112
Mother of God, when Moses * saw the bush unconsumed, we own that it was a figure of the preservation of thy most wonderful virginity pray for us;;121
The Root of Jesse hath blossomed * the star is arisen out of Jacob, the Virgin hath given birth to the Saviour we praise thee, O our God!;;126
Behold, Mary hath borne * for us a Saviour; John beheld Him and cried, saying Behold, the Lamb of God, behold Him that taketh away the sins of the world. Alleluja;;147

[Lectio7]
Evangélium szent Lukács Evangélista kőnyvéből
!Lk 2:21
Azon időben amikor eltelt a nyolc nap és körülmetélték, a Jézus nevet adták neki, ahogy az angyal nevezte. És így tovább.
_
Homily by St Ambrose, Bishop (of Milan.)
!Book ii. on Luke ii.
So the Child is circumcised. This is the Child of Whom it is said Unto us a Child is born, unto us a Son is given, (Isa. ix. 6.) Made under the law to redeem them that were under the law. (Gal. iv. 4.) To present Him to the Lord, ~(22.) In my Commentary on Isaiah I have already explained what is meant by being presented to the Lord in Jerusalem, and therefore I will not enter into the subject again. He that is circumcised in heart gaineth the protection of God, for the eyes of the Lord are upon the righteous. (Ps. xxxiii. 16.) Ye will see that as all the ceremonies of the old law were types of realities in the new, so the circumcision of the body signified the cleansing of the heart from the guilt of sin.

[Capitulum Laudes]
!Tit 2:11-12
v. Megjelent ugyanis megváltó Istenünk kegyelme minden ember számára,  s arra tanít minket, hogy szakítsunk az istentelenséggel és az evilági vágyakkal, éljünk fegyelmezetten, szentül és buzgón ezen a világon. 
$Deo gratias
