[Rank]
S. Justini Martyris;;Duplex;;3;;vide C2

[Rule]
vide C2;
9 lectiones
Lectio1 Quad

[Lectio1]
@Commune/C3:Lectio1

[Lectio2]
@Commune/C3:Lectio2

[Lectio3]
@Commune/C3:Lectio3

[Lectio7]
Evangélium szent Lukács Evangélista kőnyvéből
!Luke 12:2-8
Abban az időben így szólt Jézus a tanítványaihoz Nincs semmi elrejtve, ami nyilvánosságra ne kerülne, s titok, ami ki ne tudódna. És így tovább.
_
Homily by St John Chrysostom, (Patriarch of Constantinople)
!On Matthew x. 26.)
The disciple is not above his master, nor the servant above his lord. It is enough for the disciple that he be as his master, and the servant as his lord. If they have called the master of the house Beelzebub, how much more shall they call them of his household? Fear them not, therefore : for] there is nothing covered, that shall not be revealed; and hid, that shall not be known. It is as though He would say : It is comfort enough for you, if I, your Master and Lord, am a partaker in your reproach. But if it grieve you unto this present to hear these things, bethink you likewise that it is but a little while, and ye shall be free from that reproach. For what is it that grieveth you? is it that they call you tricksters and deceivers? Wait but a little while and all men shall call you the preservers and benefactors of the world. In a little while all the things which are dark now shall be made clear, and the falsehood of them that reproach you and your own goodness shall be shown in the light. For when that which cometh to pass shall itself show that ye are preservers and benefactors, and filled with all goodness, men will regard not the words of your gainsayers but the truth. They that now speak evil of you will be found out in the slanderers, liars, and calumniators, and ye shall be seen to be brighter than the sun; time shall make you known and shall preach you with a voice louder than the voice of a trumpet, and shall bring forward all men as the witnesses of your goodness. Let not, therefore, those things which are now spoken cast you down, but rather let the hope of the good things which are to come lift you up. For the things which regard you cannot be hidden.
