[Rank]
S. Bedae Venerabilis Confessoris et Ecclesiae Doctoris;;Duplex;;3;;vide C5a

[RankNewcal]
S. Bedae Venerabilis Confessoris et Ecclesiae Doctoris;;Duplex optional;;2;;vide C5a

[Rule]
vide C5a;mtv
9 lectiones
CPapaM=Janos;

[Name]
Beda

[Commemoratio]
!Commemoratio S. John pope and martyr
@Commune/C2:Oratio proper Gregem
$Oremus
God, who year by year dost gladden us by the solemn feast day of thy Blessed~
Martyr and Bishop John, mercifully grant that we who keep his birthday, may~
ever feel the joyful effects of his protection.
$Per Dominum

[Lectio7]
Evangélium szent Máté Apostol kőnyvéből
!Matt 5:13-19
Azon időben így szólt Jézus tanítványaihoz: Ti vagytok a föld sója. Ha a só ízét veszti, ugyan mivel sózzák meg? Nem való egyébre, mint hogy kidobják, s az emberek eltapossák. Ti vagytok a világ világossága. A hegyen épült várost nem lehet elrejteni. És így tovább.
_
Homily of the Venerable Bede, Priest.
!On the Gospel
The Gospel saith, Ye are the salt of the earth. In these words the earth signifies human nature, and the salt signifies wisdom. Salt, verily, by its nature renders the earth unfruitful. Hence we read of cities, which in the anger of their victors were sown with salt. And hereto agreeth the teaching of the Apostle that by the salt of wisdom the lust of this world is restrained in the earth of human flesh, lest the foulness of vice should sprout up. But what if the salt shall have lost its savour? That is to say If you, by whom the people are to be seasoned, are, on account of fear of persecution, or terror, you should lose the kingdom of heaven, placed outside the Church, there is no doubt that you will incur the taunts of the enemy. Ye are the light of the world that is to say You, because ye are enlightened by the true light, ought to be the light of them who are in the world. A city set on an hill cannot be hid ; that is to say The Apostles' teaching, founded upon Christ; in other words, the Church built upon Christ, out of many nations, in the unity of the faith, and bound together with the cement of love; to those who enter it, a place of safety; to those who go up to it, toilsome; the guardian of those who dwell in it, and excluding every enemy.
