[Rank]
Sabbato infra octavam Corporis Christi;;Semiduplex II class;;5;;ex Tempora/Pent01-4

[Rank1960]
Sabbato infra Hebdomadam I post Octavam Pentecostes;;Feria;;1

[Rule]
ex Tempora/Pent01-4;
9 lectiones
Doxology=Corp
							
[Lectio1]
Olvasmány Sámuel elsõ könyvébõl
!1 Sam 3:1-7
1 A kis Sámuel Éli felügyeletével szolgálta az Urat. Abban az idõben az Úr ritkán hallatta szavát; jelenést sem lehetett gyakran látni. 
2 Az egyik nap mégis történt, hogy Éli a szokott helyén aludt. A szeme már kezdett gyengülni, nem sokat látott. 
3 Isten lámpája még nem aludt ki. Sámuel az Úr templomában aludt, ahol az Isten ládája állt. 
4 Az Úr megszólította: "Sámuel, Sámuel!" "Itt vagyok" - felelte. 
5 Azután odafutott Élihez, és azt mondta: "Itt vagyok, hívtál." Az ezt válaszolta: "Nem hívtalak, feküdj le és aludj." Elment és lefeküdt aludni. 
6 Az Úr azonban újra szólította: "Sámuel!" És Sámuel fölkelt, odament Élihez és azt mondta: "Itt vagyok, hívtál." Ez azt felelte: "Nem hívtalak, fiam, feküdj le és aludj!" 
7 Sámuel ugyanis még nem ismerte az Urat, még nem volt része abban, hogy az Úr megnyilatkozzék neki. 

[Responsory1 1960]
@Tempora/Pent01-3:Responsory1

[Lectio2]
!1 Sam 3:8-12
8 Az Úr most újra szólította Sámuelt, harmadszorra. Fölkelt, odament Élihez és így szólt: "Itt vagyok, hívtál." Erre Éli megértette, hogy az Úr szólította a fiút. 
9 Ezért azt mondta Éli Sámuelnek: "Menj, feküdj le és aludj, aztán ha valaki szólít, így válaszolj: Beszélj, Uram, szolgád figyel!" Sámuel elment és nyugovóra tért a helyén. 
10 Akkor megjelent az Úr, elé állt és szólította, mint elõzõ alkalommal: "Sámuel, Sámuel!" És Sámuel így válaszolt: "Beszélj, szolgád figyel!" 
11 Akkor az Úr azt mondta Sámuelnek: "Nézd, olyat teszek Izraelben, hogy aki csak hallja, annak mindkét füle csengeni fog tõle. 
12 Azon a napon valóra váltom Élin mind, amit házára kimondtam, elejétõl végig. 

[Responsory2 1960]
@Tempora/Pent01-3:Responsory2

[Lectio3]
!1 Sam 3:15-20
15 Sámuel egész reggelig fekve maradt. Akkor kinyitotta az Úr házának kapuját. De Sámuel félt Éli elõtt mutatkozni. 
16 Éli azonban odahívta magához Sámuelt. Így szólította: "Sámuel, fiam!" "Itt vagyok" - felelte neki. 
17 Erre megkérdezte tõle: "Mit mondott neked? Ne titkolj el elõlem semmit. Isten ezt meg azt tegye veled, ha valamit eltitkolsz elõlem abból, amit mondott neked." 
18 Sámuel tehát elmondott mindent, és nem hallgatott el semmit. Erre Éli azt mondta: "Õ az Úr! Tegye, ami tetszik neki!" 
19 Sámuel felnõtt és vele volt az Úr, és nem hagyta, hogy egyetlen szava is meghiúsuljon. 
20 Dántól Beersebáig egész Izrael megtudta, hogy Sámuelt az Úr prófétájává választotta. 

[Responsory3 1960]
@Tempora/Pent01-3:Responsory3

[Lectio4]
From the Sermons of St John Chrysostom Patriarch of Constantinople.
!61st Homily to the people of Antioch.
Dearly beloved brethren, it behoveth us to learn the miracle of the Mysteries what the Gift is, and why It was given, and what is the use thereof. "We, being~
many, are one body," saith [the Apostle Paul, (1 Cor. x. 17,) and again] "We are~
members of His Body, of His Flesh, and of His Bones." (Eph. v. 30.) Only the initiated will now understand what I say. That this union may take place, not by love only, but verily and indeed, we ought to mingle our own with His Flesh. And this is done by eating that Food Which He hath given unto us, being fain to manifest that exceeding great love which He beareth to us-ward. To this end He hath mingled Himself with us, and infused His Body into our bodies, that we may be one together, like as the limbs of a man and his head are all of one body. Such union do they long for that love much.

[Lectio5]
When we come back from that Table we ought to be like so many lions breathing fire, dreadful to the devil. Our thoughts ought to be concentrated on our Great Head and the love which He showeth us. Many fathers and mothers there are who give their children to others to nurse, but I, saith the Lord to His children, I am not so, but I feed you with Mine Own Flesh, and join Myself to you, fain that ye all should be sons of noble blood now, and giving you a noble hope of that~
which ye shall be hereafter. I was content to become your Brother, I for your sakes have taken unto Me Flesh, and Blood, and that Flesh and Blood wherein I am become your Brother, the Same give I in turn unto you.

[Lectio6]
Let us then, dearly beloved brethren, take good heed to ourselves, as unto the holders of so great mercies, and when any foul word springeth to our lips, or we feel anger taking possession of us, or the sting of any other sinful passion, let us call to mind of What we have been counted worthy, and let that remembrance still the unruly motion. As often as we take that Body, as often as we taste that Blood, let us think how that we feed on Him Who is sitting on high,~
adored of Angels, at the right hand of the Eternal Power. Ah me, how many a way is open to us whereby we may be saved He hath made us His He hath given His Body to us and we still are not turned away from evil

[Lectio7]
Evangélium szent János Apostol kõnyvébõl
!John 6:56-59
Aki eszi az én testemet és issza az én véremet, az bennem marad, én meg benne. Engem az élõ Atya küldött, s általa élek. Így az is élni fog általam, aki engem eszik. És így tovább
_
Homily by St Austin, Bishop of Hippo.
!27th Tract on John.
I have said, my brethren, that what the Lord hath set before us, in eating of His Flesh and drinking of His Blood, is that we should dwell in Him, and He in us. We dwell in Him when we are His members, and He dwelleth in us when we are His temple. But the bond whereby we are made His members is oneness and what is the cause of oneness but love And love of God, whence is it? Ask the Apostle. "The love of God," saith he, " is shed abroad in our hearts by the Holy~
Ghost. Which is given unto us." (Rom. v. 5.)

[Lectio8]
So "it is the spirit that quickeneth." It is the spirit that maketh lively the limbs, nor is the quickening power of the spirit shed through any limbs but such as remain in union with the body whose the spirit is. The spirit that thou hast in thee, O man, and whereby thou art a man, doth that spirit shed life through any limb cut off from thy flesh By " spirit," I mean soul. The soul quickeneth no limb but such as remain attached to the body. Cut one off, and the soul quickeneth it no more, for it is separate from the oneness of thy body.

[Lectio9]
These things I say, that we may love oneness and dread division. In sooth, there is nothing which a Christian ought so much to dread, as to be cut off from the Body of Christ. If he be cut off from the Body of Christ, he is no longer a member of Christ, and the Spirit of Christ no longer quickeneth him. "Now, if any man," saith the Apostle, "have not the Spirit of Christ, he is none of His." (Rom. viii. 9.) "It is the Spirit that quickeneth the flesh profiteth nothing the words that I speak unto you, they are spirit and they are life." "Spirit and life" -what meaneth this? It is to If e taken spiritually. Hast thou taken it spiritually Then the words the Lord spake, unto thee they are spirit and they are life. Hast thou taken it carnally? Then the words of the Lord are still indeed spirit and life but not for thee.
&teDeum
