[Rank]
Feria Secunda infra Hebdomadam IV in Quadragesima;;Feria major;;2

[Rule]

[Lectio1]
Continuation of the Holy Gospel according to John
!John 2:13-25.
In that time, the pasch of the Jews was at hand, and Jesus went up to Jerusalem. And he found in the temple them that sold oxen and sheep and doves. And so on.
_
Homily by St Austin, Bishop (of Hippo.)
!10th Tract on John.
What hear we now, my brethren? Behold, that temple was still but a figure, and the Lord drove out therefrom all them that sought their own, even them that were come to deal in merchandise. And what was it that they sold there? Only such things as were needful to men for the sacrifices that then were. For your love knoweth that, because of that people's carnal-mindedness and the stoniness of their heart, there were commanded unto them such sacrifices as these, thereby to hold them back from idolatry and there, according, they offered up oxen, and sheep, and doves. This ye have read, and know.

[Responsory1]
R. When ye be gone over Jordan, there shall ye build an altar unto the Lord
* Of whole stones; ye shall not lift up any iron tool upon them; and ye shall offer burnt-offerings thereon, and peace-offerings, unto your God.
V. When ye shall pass over Jordan unto the land which the Lord giveth you, there shall ye build an altar unto the Lord.
R. Of whole stones; ye shall not lift up any iron tool upon them; and ye shall offer burnt-offerings thereon, and peace-offerings, unto your God.

[Lectio2]
It was no great sin, therefore, if they sold in the temple that which was bought to be offered in the temple and yet He drove them out. If, then, the Lord drove out of His temple them which sold such things as are lawful and right (for to buy and sell is lawful, if only it be done honestly,) and suffered not the house of prayer to be made an house of merchandise, what would He have done if He had found there men drunken?

[Responsory2]
R. Hear, O Israel, the law of the Lord, and write it in thine heart as in a book
* And I will give unto thee a land flowing with milk and honey.
V. Take heed therefore, and hearken unto My voice and I will be an enemy unto thine enemies.
R. And I will give unto thee a land flowing with milk and honey.

[Lectio3]
If the house of God must not be a house of merchandise, must it be an house to drink in? And yet, when we say this, men gnash upon us with their teeth. But we find consolation in remembering that so far we are even as the Psalmist, who saith: They gnashed upon me with their teeth. (Ps. xxxiv. 16.) Yea, we have also learnt to listen to words that heal us, though, of a verity, the lashes that are made at His word are really made at Christ. Lashes, saith He, were heaped upon Me; and they knew not what they did. He was lashed by the scourges of the Jews, and He is lashed still by the blasphemies of false Christians; they heap lashes upon the Lord their God; and know not what they do. As for us, we will do that which He hath holpen us to do; But as for me, when they troubled me, my clothing was sackcloth, and I humbled my soul with fasting 

[Responsory3]
R. As I was with Moses, so I will be with thee, saith the Lord.
* Be strong and of a good courage, and thou shalt bring My people into a land flowing with milk and honey.
V. Fear not, for I am with thee whithersoever thou goest I will not fail thee, nor forsake thee.
R. Be strong and of a good courage, and thou shalt bring My people into a land flowing with milk and honey.
&Gloria
R. Be strong and of a good courage, and thou shalt bring My people into a land flowing with milk and honey.

[Ant 2]
Thus saith the Lord: * Take these things hence; make not My Father's house an house of merchandise.

[Oratio 2]
Grant, we beseech thee, O Almighty God, that we who year by year do prayerfully renew the holy observance of this thy great Fast, may be acceptable in thy sight, as touching both our bodies and our souls.
$Per Dominum

[Ant 3]
Thus saith the Lord: * Destroy this temple, and in three days I will raise it up. But He spoke of the temple of His Body.

[Oratio 3]
O Lord, we beseech thee graciously to hear our supplications, and evermore help and defend all them to whom Thou hast given the mind to pray.
$Per Dominum.
