[Rank]
Dominica II. Post Pentecosten infra Octavam Corporis Christi;;Semiduplex I classis;;5.9;;ex Tempora/Pent01-4

[Rank1960]
Dominica II. Post Pentecosten;;Semiduplex;;5 

[Rule]
ex Tempora/Pent01-4
9 lectiones
Psalmi Dominica
Antiphonas horas
Doxology=Corp

[Ant 1]
The child Samuel ministered unto God * before Eli, and the word of the Lord was precious in his sight.

[Oratio]
O Lord, Who never failest to help and govern them whom Thou dost bring up in thy steadfast fear and love keep us, we beseech thee, under the protection of thy good providence, and make us to have a perpetual fear and love of thy Holy Name
$Per Dominum.

[Lectio1]
Olvasmány Sámuel elsõ könyvébõl
!1 Sam 4:1-3
1 Sámuel szava egész Izraelnek szólt. Éli nagyon megöregedett, s fiai folytatták üzelmeiket az Úr színe elõtt. Abban az idõben Izrael hadba vonult a filiszteusok ellen, és Eben-ha-Ezer mellett ütött tábort.
2 A filiszteusok Afek közelében táboroztak. A filiszteusok csatasorba álltak Izrael ellen. Nehéz küzdelem volt, és Izrael vereséget szenvedett a filiszteusoktól: mintegy négyezer ember elesett a nyílt mezõn a csatában.
3 Amikor a nép visszatért a táborba, Izrael fiainak vénei így szóltak: "Miért engedte meg ma az Úr, hogy a filiszteusok legyõzzenek bennünket? Ide hozzuk Silóból Istenünk ládáját, akkor eljön közénk, és kiszabadít minket ellenségeink kezébõl."

[Responsory1]
R. Prepare your hearts unto the Lord, and serve Him Only
* And He will deliver you out of the hand of your enemies.
V. Return unto Him with all your hearts, and put away the strange gods from among you.
R. And He will deliver you out of the hand of your enemies.

[Lectio2]
!1 Sam 4:4-6
4 A nép tehát elküldött Silóba, és elhozatta onnan a Seregek Urának ládáját, aki a kerubok fölött trónol. Éli két fia, Hofni és Pinchász kísérte a ládát.
5 Amikor az Úr ládája a táborba ért, egész Izrael örömujjongásban tört ki, úgyhogy beleremegett a föld.
6 A filiszteusok hallották az örömujjongást, és megkérdezték: "Mit jelent a héberek táborában ez a hangos ujjongás?" Amikor megtudták, hogy az Úr ládája a táborba érkezett,

[Responsory2]
R. God, Which heareth all, even He sent His Angel, and took me from keeping my father's sheep, and
* Anointed me with the oil of His mercy.
V. The Lord That delivered me out of the mouth of the lion, and out of the paw of the bear
R. And anointed me with the oil of His mercy.

[Lectio3]
!1 Sam 4:7-11
7 fa filiszteusokat félelem fogta el, mert azt mondták: "Istenük eljött hozzájuk a táborba." És így beszéltek: "Jaj nekünk, hisz ilyen még nem fordult elõ!
8 Jaj nekünk! Ki szabadít ki minket ennek a hatalmas Istennek a kezébõl? Ez az az Isten, aki az egyiptomiakat mindenféle csapással sújtotta a pusztában.
9 Szedjétek hát össze minden erõtöket, és legyetek férfiak, filiszteusok, nehogy a héberek szolgaságába kerüljetek, amint õk voltak a ti szolgaságotokban. Bizonyuljatok férfinak és harcoljatok!"
10 A filiszteusok küzdöttek, és Izrael fiai vereséget szenvedtek. Menekültek, ki-ki a maga városába. Vereségük nagyon súlyos volt: Izrael fiai közül harmincezer gyalogos elesett.
11 Az Isten ládáját is zsákmányul ejtették, és Élinek mindkét fia meghalt, Hofni is, Pinchász is.

[Responsory3]
R. The Lord That delivered me out of the mouth of the lion, and out of the paw of the bear
* He will deliver me out of the hand of mine enemies.
V. God hath sent forth His mercy and His truth, and delivered my soul from among the lion's whelps.
R. He will deliver me out of the hand of mine enemies.
&Gloria
R. He will deliver me out of the hand of mine enemies.

[Lectio4]
From the Sermons of St John Chrysostom Patriarch of Constantinople.
!both Homily to the people of Antioch.
His Word saith: "This is My Body." This we confess, and believe, and, with spiritual eyes, do see. Christ hath not left unto us Himself in such form as that we can see, hear, touch, smell, or taste Him and yet hath He left Himself unto us in things which we can see, hear, touch, smell, and taste, and which all men may understand. Thus also is it in baptism by mean of water, which men perceive outwardly, is given unto them a gift which they can grasp only inwardly, that is, a new birth. If we had no bodies, then would these things be given us without any outward and visible signs, but since we are here made up of souls and bodies, there are given unto our souls gifts which they can grasp, in outward signs which our bodies may perceive. How many there be which say I would that I could see His comely presence, His Face, His garments, even His shoes Behold, thou dost see and touch Him, yea, thou dost feed upon Him. And wouldest thou behold His raiment Lo, He hath given unto thee not only to behold it, but to feed upon it, and handle it, and take it into thyself.

[Lectio5]
At this table of the Lord let none dare to draw near with squeamishness or carelessness. Let all be fiery, all hot, all roused. To the Jews it was commanded touching the Paschal lamb, (Exod. xii. 11): "And thus shall ye eat it with your loins girded, your shoes on your feet, and your staff in your hand and ye shall eat it in haste it is the Lord's Passover." But thou needest to be more watchful than they. They were just about to travel from Egypt to Palestine, and therefore they bore the guise of travellers but the journey that lieth before thee is from earth to heaven. And therefore it behoveth thee in all things to be on thy guard, for the punishment of him that eateth or~
drinketh unworthily is no light one (1 Cor. xi. 27.) Bethink thee how thou art indignant against him which betrayed, and them that crucified the Lord and look to it well that thou also be not " Guilty of the Body and Blood of the Lord." As for them, they slew His Most Holy Body but thou, after all that He hath done for thee, dost thrust Him into thy polluted soul. For His love, it was not enough to be made Man, to be buffeted, and to be crucified He hath also mingled Himself with us, by making us His Body, and that not by faith only, but verily and indeed.

[Lectio6]
Anything be purer than that man ought to be, who eateth of this great Sacrifice Can sun-beam be clearer than that hand ought to be which breaketh this Flesh? that mouth, which is filled with that spiritual fire? that tongue, which is reddened by that Blood, awful exceedingly? That whereon the Angels quail to look, neither dare to gaze steadfastly upon It, because of the blinding glory that shineth therefrom, upon This we feed, with This we become one, and are made one body of Christ, and one flesh. "Who can utter the mighty acts of the Lord who~
can show forth all His praise?" (Ps. cv. 2.) Where is the shepherd which feedeth his flock with his own blood Nay, why should I say, shepherd Many mothers there be, who after all the pains of travail, give their own little ones to strangers to nurse. But so would not He, but feedeth us with His Own Blood, and maketh us to grow up in His Own substance.

[Lectio7]
Evangélium szent Lukács Evangélista kõnyvébõl
!Luke 14:16-24
Erre ezt válaszolta: "Egy ember nagy vendégséget rendezett. Sokakat meghívott. Amikor eljött a lakoma kezdetének ideje, elküldte szolgáit, mondják meg a meghívottaknak: Gyertek, már minden készen van. És így tovább
_
Homily by Pope St Gregory the Great.
!36th upon the Gospels.
Dearly beloved brethren, between the dainties of the body and the dainties of the mind there is this difference, that the dainties of the body, when we lack them, raise up a great hunger after them, and when we devour them, straightway our fulness worketh in us niceness. But about the dainties of the mind we are nice while as yet we lack them, and when we fill ourselves with them, then are we an-hungered after them, and the more, being an-hungered, we feed thereon, the~
more are we an-hungered thereafter. In the bodily dainties, the hunger is keener~
than the fulness, but in the spiritual the fulness is keener than the hunger. In the bodily, hunger gendereth fulness, and fulness niceness in the spiritual, hunger indeed gendereth fulness, but fulness gendereth hunger.

[Lectio8]
Scriptural dainties, in the very eating, do stir up the keenness of hunger in the mind which they fill, for, the more we taste their sweetness, the better we know how well they deserve to be loved and, if we taste them not, we cannot love them, for we know not how sweet they be. And who can love that whereof he knoweth nothing Hence saith the Psalmist " O taste and see that the Lord is good," (Ps. xxxiii. 9,) that is, as it were, " If ye taste not, ye shall not see His goodness but let your heart once taste the bread of life, and then indeed, having tasted and proved His sweetness, ye shall be able to love Him." But these were the dainties which man lost when he sinned in Eden, and when he had shut his own mouth against the sweet bread whereof if any man eat he shall live for ever, he forsook paradise.

[Responsory8]
R. A certain man made a great supper, and sent his servant at suppertime to say to them that were bidden: Come
* For all things are now ready.
V. Come, eat of my bread, and drink of the wine which I have mingled for you.
R. For all things are now ready.
&Gloria
R. For all things are now ready

[Lectio9]
And we that, from the first man, are born under the afflictions of this pilgrimage, are come into the world smitten with niceness we know not what we ought to want, and the disease of our niceness groweth the worse, as our soul draweth itself the more away from that bread of sweetness. We are no longer an-hungered after inward dainties, since we have lost the use of feeding on them. And so in our niceness we starve, and the sickness of long famishing maketh prey of our health. We will not eatof that inward sweetness which is made ready for us, and being enamoured only of things outward we sink into the wretchedness of loving starvation.
&teDeum

[Ant 2]
A certain man made a great supper, * and bade many and sent his servant at supper- time to say to them that were bidden Come, for all things are now ready.

[Ant 3]
Go out quickly into the streets * and lanes of the city, and compel the poor and the maimed, and the halt, and the blind, to come in that my house may be full Alleluia.
