[Officium]
7. neděle po Svatém Duchu

[Introitus]
!Ps 46:2
v. All you peoples clap your hands, shout to God with cries of gladness.
!Ps 46:3
For the Lord, the Most High, the awesome, is the great King over all the earth.
&Gloria
v. All you peoples clap your hands, shout to God with cries of gladness.

[Oratio]
Bože, jehož prozřetelnost ve svém působení nikdy nezklame; pokorně tě prosíme, abys nám odebral vše škodlivé, a udělil to, co nám prospívá.
$Per Dominum

[Lectio]
Lesson from the letter of St. Paul the Apostle to the Romans
!Rom 6:19-23
Brethren: I speak in a human way because of the weakness of your flesh; for as you yielded your members as slaves of uncleanness and iniquity unto iniquity, so now yield your members as slaves of justice unto sanctification. For when you were slaves of sin, you were free as regards justice. But what fruit had you then from those things of which you are now ashamed? For the end of these things is death. But now set free from sin and become slaves to God, you have your fruit unto sanctification, and as your end, life everlasting. For the wages of sin is death, but the gift of God is life everlasting in Christ Jesus our Lord.

[Graduale]
!Ps 33:12, 6
Come, children, hear me; I will teach you the fear of the Lord.
V. Look to Him that you may be radiant with joy, and your faces may not blush with shame. Alleluia, alleluia.
!Ps 46:2
V. All you peoples, clap your hands, shout to God with cries of gladness. Alleluia.

[Evangelium]
Pokračování + svatého Evangelia podle Matouše
!Mat. 7:15-21
Za onoho času řekl Ježíš svým učedníkům: Mějte se na pozoru před nepravými proroky: přicházejí k vám převlečeni za ovce, ale uvnitř jsou draví vlci. Poznáte je po jejich ovoci. Copak se sklízejí z trní hrozny nebo z bodláků fíky? Tak každý dobrý strom nese dobré ovoce, ale špatný strom nese špatné ovoce. Dobrý strom nemůže nést špatné ovoce ani špatný strom nést dobré ovoce. Každý strom, který nenese dobré ovoce, bude poražen a hozen do ohně. Poznáte je tedy po jejich ovoci. Ne každý, kdo mi říká: 'Pane, Pane!', vejde do nebeského království, ale ten, kdo plní vůli mého nebeského Otce.

[Offertorium]
!Dan 3:40
As though it were holocausts of rams and bullocks, or thousands of fat lambs, so let our sacrifice be in Your presence today, that it may please You; for those who trust in You cannot be put to shame, O Lord.

[Secreta]
O God, You Who have given us in one perfect sacrifice the fulfillment of the various sacrifices made under the Old Law, accept these sacrificial gifts offered You by Your devoted servants, and make them holy as You did the gifts of Abel, so that what each one of us has offered in praise of Your majesty may profit for the salvation of all.
$Per Dominum

[Communio]
!Ps 30:3
Incline Your ear to me, make haste to deliver me.

[Postcommunio]
May Your healing action, O Lord, mercifully rid us of our evil inclinations and lead us to do good.
$Per Dominum
