[Officium]
4. neděle po Svatém Duchu

[Introitus]
!Ps. 26:1-2
v. The Lord is my light and my salvation; whom should I fear? The Lord is my life’s refuge; of whom should I be afraid? My enemies that trouble me, themselves stumble and fall.
!Ps 26:3
Though an army encamp against me, my heart will not fear.
&Gloria
v. The Lord is my light and my salvation; whom should I fear? The Lord is my life’s refuge; of whom should I be afraid? My enemies that trouble me, themselves stumble and fall.

[Oratio]
Grant us, we beseech You, O Lord, that the course of the world may be directed according to Your rule in peace and that Your Church may have the joy of serving You undisturbed.
$Per Dominum

[Lectio]
Lesson from the letter of St. Paul the Apostle to the Romans
!Rom 8:18-23
Brethren: I reckon that the sufferings of the present time are not worthy to be compared with the glory to come that will be revealed in us. For the eager longing of creation awaits the revelation of the sons of God. For creation was made subject to vanity - not by its own will but by reason of Him Who made it subject - in hope, because creation itself also will be delivered from its slavery to corruption into the freedom of the glory of the sons of God. For we know that all creation groans and travails in pain until now. And not only it, but we ourselves also who have the first-fruits of the Spirit - we ourselves groan within ourselves, waiting for the adoption as sons of God, the redemption of our body, in Christ Jesus our Lord.

[Graduale]
!Ps. 78:9-10
Pardon our sins, O Lord; why should the nations say, Where is their God?
V. Help us, O God our Saviour; because of the glory of Your name, O Lord, deliver us. Alleluia, alleluia.
!Ps. 9:5; 9:10
O God, seated on Your throne, judging justly: be a stronghold for the oppressed in times of distress. Alleluia.

[Evangelium]
Pokračování + svatého Evangelia podle Lukáše
!Lukáš 5:1-11
Za onoho času, Ježíš stál u Genezaretského jezera, lidé se na něho tlačili, aby slyšeli Boží slovo. Tu spatřil u břehu stát dvě lodě. Rybáři z nich vystoupili a prali sítě. Vstoupil na jednu z těch lodí, která patřila Šimonovi, a požádal ho, aby trochu odrazil od břehu. Posadil se a z lodi učil zástupy. Když přestal mluvit, řekl Šimonovi: „Zajeď na hlubinu a spusťte sítě k lovení!“ Šimon mu odpověděl: „Mistře, celou noc jsme se lopotili, a nic jsme nechytili. Ale na tvé slovo spustím sítě.“ Když to udělali, zahrnuli veliké množství ryb, že se jim sítě téměř trhaly. Dali znamení společníkům v druhé lodi, aby jim přišli na pomoc, a ti přijeli. Naplnili obě lodě, až se potápěly. Když to Šimon Petr viděl, padl Ježíšovi k nohám a řekl: „Pane, odejdi ode mě: jsem člověk hříšný!“ Zmocnil se ho totiž úžas, a také všech jeho společníků, nad tím lovem ryb, které chytili; stejně i Zebedeových synů Jakuba a Jana, kteří byli Šimonovými druhy. Ježíš řekl Šimonovi: „Neboj se! Od nynějška budeš lovit lidi.“ Přirazili s loďmi k zemi, nechali všeho a šli za ním.

[Offertorium]
!Ps. 12:4-5
Give light to my eyes that I may never sleep in death, lest my enemy say, I have overcome him.

[Secreta]
Be appeased, we beseech You, O Lord, by accepting our offerings, and in Your kindness make even our rebellious wills turn to You.
$Per Dominum

[Communio]
!Ps. 17:3
O Lord, my rock, my fortress, my deliverer: my God, my rock of refuge!

[Postcommunio]
May the sacrament we have received cleanse us, we beseech You, O Lord, and by its grace protect us.
$Per Dominum
