[Officium]
6. neděle po Svatém Duchu

[Introitus]
!Ps. 27:8-9.
v. The Lord is the strength of His people, the saving refuge of His anointed. Save Your people, O Lord, and bless Your inheritance; and rule them forever!
!Ps 27:1
To You, O Lord, I call; O my God, be not deaf to me, lest, if You heed me not, I become one of those going down into the pit.
&Gloria
v. The Lord is the strength of His people, the saving refuge of His anointed. Save Your people, O Lord, and bless Your inheritance; and rule them forever!

[Oratio]
Mocný Bože, jemuž patří vše, co je nejlepší; vlož do našich srdcí lásku ke svému jménu, a dej vzrůst naší nábožnosti, abys to, co je dobré, živil, a v laskavém úsilí to, co je živeno, chránil.
$Per Dominum

[Lectio]
Lesson from the letter of St. Paul the Apostle to the Romans
!Rom 6:3-11.
Brethren: All we who have been baptized into Christ Jesus have been baptized into His death. For we were buried with Him by means of Baptism into death, in order that, just as Christ has arisen from the dead through the glory of the Father, so we also may walk in newness of life. For if we have been united with Him in the likeness of His death, we shall be so in the likeness of His resurrection also. For we know that our old self has been crucified with Him, in order that the body of sin may be destroyed, that we may no longer be slaves to sin; for he who is dead is acquitted of sin. But if we have died with Christ, we believe that we shall also live together with Christ; for we know that Christ, having risen from the dead, dies now no more, death shall no longer have dominion over Him. For the death that He died, He died to sin once for all, but the life that He lives, He lives unto God. Thus do you consider yourselves also as dead to sin, but alive to God in Christ Jesus our Lord.

[Graduale]
!Ps. 89:13, 1
Return, O Lord! How long? Have pity on Your servants!
V. O Lord, You have been our refuge through all generations. Alleluia, alleluia.
!Ps. 30:2-3.
V. In You, O Lord, I take refuge; let me never be put to shame. In Your justice rescue me and release me, incline Your ear to me, make haste to deliver me! Alleluia.

[Evangelium]
Pokračování + svatého Evangelia podle Marka
!Marek 8:1-9
V těch dnech byl s ním zase velký zástup a neměli co jíst. Zavolal si učedníky a řekl jim: „Je mi líto zástupu, protože už tři dni jsou se mnou a nemají co jíst. Když je pošlu domů hladové, cestou je opustí síly, vždyť někteří z nich jsou zdaleka.“ Jeho učedníci mu odpověděli: „Kde by kdo mohl tady v neobydleném kraji sehnat tolik chleba, aby je nasytil?“ Zeptal se jich: „Kolik máte chlebů?“ Odpověděli: „Sedm.“ Rozkázal, aby se lid posadil na zem, vzal těch sedm chlebů, vzdal díky, lámal a dával učedníkům, aby je předkládali; předložili je tedy lidu. Měli také několik malých ryb. Požehnal je a řekl, aby i ty předkládali. A najedli se dosyta a sesbíralo se ještě sedm košíků zbylých kousků. Těch lidí bylo na čtyři tisíce. Potom je propustil.

[Offertorium]
!Ps. 16:5-7
Make my steps steadfast in Your paths, that my feet may not falter. Incline Your ear to me; hear my word. Show Your wondrous kindness, O Lord, O Saviour of those who trust in You.

[Secreta]
Mercifully hear our humble prayers, O Lord, and graciously accept these offerings of Your people, and grant that no prayer may be without effect, no petition in vain, so that what we ask in faith, we may really obtain.
$Per Dominum

[Communio]
!Ps. 26:6
I will go round, and offer in His tent, sacrifices with shouts of gladness; I will sing and chant praise to the Lord.

[Postcommunio]
We have been filled with Your gifts, O Lord; grant, we beseech You, that we may be cleansed and strengthened by their effect.
$Per Dominum
