[Officium]
9. neděle po Svatém Duchu

[Rule]
Gloria
Credo
Prefatio=Trinitate
Suffr=Sanctorum;Maria3,Ecclesiae,Papa;;

[Introitus]
!Ps 53:6-7
v. Behold, God is my helper, the Lord sustains my life. Turn back the evil upon my foes; in Your faithfulness destroy them, O Lord, my protector.
!Ps 53:3
O God, by Your name save me, and by Your might deliver me.
&Gloria
v. Behold, God is my helper, the Lord sustains my life. Turn back the evil upon my foes; in Your faithfulness destroy them, O Lord, my protector.

[Oratio]
May Your merciful ears be open, O Lord, to the prayers of those who humbly entreat You; grant that they may ask for what pleases You so that You may fulfill their desires.
$Per Dominum

[Lectio]
Lesson from the first letter of St. Paul the Apostle to the Corinthians
!1 Cor. 10:6-13
Brethren: We should not lust after evil things even as they lusted. And do not become idolaters, even as some of them were, as it is written, The people sat down to eat and drink, and rose up to play. Neither let us commit fornication, even as some of them committed fornication, and there fell in one day twenty-three thousand. Neither let us tempt Christ, as some of them tempted, and perished by the serpents. Neither murmur, as some of them murmured, and perished at the hands of the destroyer. Now all these things happened to them as a type, and they were written for our correction, upon whom the final age of the world has come. Therefore let him who thinks he stands take heed lest he fall. May no temptation take hold of you but such as man is equal to. God is faithful and will not permit you to be tempted beyond your strength, but with the temptation will also give you a way out that you may be able to bear it.

[Graduale]
!Ps 8:2
O Lord, our Lord, how glorious is Your name over all the earth!
V. You have elevated Your Majesty above the heavens. 
Alleluia, alleluia. 
!Ps 58:2
V. Rescue me from my enemies, O my God; from my adversaries defend me. Alleluia.

[Evangelium]
Pokračování + svatého Evangelia podle Matouše
!Lukáš 19:41-47
Za onoho času, když se Ježíš přiblížil k Jerusalému a uviděl město, zaplakal nad ním a řekl: „Kéž bys v tento den poznalo i ty, co je pro tebe k pokoji! Nyní však je to tvým očím skryté. Neboť přijdou na tebe dny, kdy tě tvoji nepřátelé obklíčí náspem, oblehnou tě a sevřou ze všech stran, srovnají tě se zemí, vyhladí tvé děti a nenechají v tobě kámen na kameni, protože jsi nepoznalo čas, kdy ti Bůh nabídl svou přízeň.“ Vešel pak do chrámu, začal vyhánět prodavače a řekl jim: „Je psáno: 'Můj dům má být domem modlitby', ale vy jste z něho udělali lupičské doupě.“ A každý den učil v chrámě.

[Offertorium]
!Ps 18:9-12
The precepts of the Lord are right, rejoicing the heart, and His ordinances sweeter than syrup or honey from the comb; therefore Your servant is careful of them.

[Secreta]
Grant us, we beseech You, O Lord, to take part worthily and frequently in this sacramental action: for as often as this sacrifice of commemoration is offered, the work of our redemption is performed.
$Per Dominum

[Communio]
!John 6:57
He who eats My Flesh, and drinks My Blood, abides in Me, and I in him, says the Lord.

[Postcommunio]
May the partaking of Your sacrament, we beseech You, O Lord, cleanse us and unite us.
$Per Dominum
