[Officium]
5. neděle po Svatém Duchu

[Rule]
Gloria
Credo
Prefatio=Trinitate
Suffr=Sanctorum;Maria3,Ecclesiae,Papa;;

[Introitus]
!Ps. 26:7, 9
v. Hear, O Lord, the sound of my call; be my helper: forsake me not: despise me not, O God my Saviour.
!Ps 26:1
The Lord is my light and my salvation; whom should I fear?
&Gloria
v. Hear, O Lord, the sound of my call; be my helper: forsake me not: despise me not, O God my Saviour.

[Oratio]
O God, You Who have prepared good things as yet unseen for those who love You, pour a burning love into our hearts, so that we, loving You in and above all things, may obtain Your promises which surpass all desire.
$Per Dominum

[Lectio]
Lesson from the first letter of St. Peter the Apostle
!1 Pet 3:8-15.
Beloved: Be all like-minded in prayer, compassionate, lovers of the brethren, merciful, reserved, humble; not rendering evil for evil, or abuse for abuse, but contrariwise, blessing; for unto this were you called that you might inherit a blessing. For, 'He who would love life, and see good days, let him refrain his tongue from evil, and his lips that they speak no deceit. Let him turn away from evil and do good, let him seek after peace and pursue it. For the eyes of the Lord are upon the just, and His ears unto their prayers; but the face of the Lord is against those who do evil.' And who is there to harm you, if you are zealous for what is good? But even if you suffer anything for justice’ sake, blessed are you. So have no fear of their fear and do not be troubled. But hallow the Lord Christ in your hearts.

[Graduale]
!Ps. 83:10, 9
Behold, O God, our protector, and look on Your servants.
V. O Lord God of Hosts, hear the prayers of Your servants. Alleluia, alleluia.
!Ps. 20:1
V. O Lord, in Your strength the king is glad; in Your victory how greatly he rejoices! Alleluia.

[Evangelium]
Pokračování + svatého Evangelia podle Matouše
!Mat. 5:20-24.
Za onoho času, řekl Ježíš svým učedníkům: Nebude-li vaše spravedlnost mnohem dokonalejší než spravedlnost učitelů Zákona a farizeů, do nebeského království nevejdete. Slyšeli jste, že bylo řečeno předkům: 'Nezabiješ.' Kdo by zabil, propadne soudu. Ale já vám říkám: Každý, kdo se na svého bratra hněvá, propadne soudu; kdo svého bratra tupí, propadne veleradě; a kdo ho zatracuje, propadne pekelnému ohni. Přinášíš-li tedy svůj dar k oltáři a tam si vzpomeneš, že tvůj bratr má něco proti tobě, nech tam svůj dar před oltářem a jdi se napřed smířit se svým bratrem, teprve potom přijď a obětuj svůj dar.

[Offertorium]
!Ps. 15:7-8.
I bless the Lord Who counsels me; I set God ever before me; with Him at my right hand I shall not be disturbed.

[Secreta]
Be propitious to our supplications, O Lord, and graciously receive these oblations of Your servants and handmaids, that what each one offered to the glory of Your name, may profit all to salvation.
$Per Dominum

[Communio]
!Ps. 26:4.
One thing I ask of the Lord; this I seek: to dwell in the house of the Lord all the days of my life.

[Postcommunio]
Grant us, we beseech You, O Lord, that we whom You have filled with the heavenly gift may be cleansed of our hidden sins and delivered from the snares of our enemies.
$Per Dominum
