[Officium]
2. neděle po Svatém Duchu

[Introitus]
!Ps. 17:19-20.
v. The Lord came to my support. He set me free in the open, and rescued me, because He loves me.
!Ps 17:2-3
I love You, O Lord, my strength, O Lord, my rock, my fortress, my deliverer.
&Gloria
v. The Lord came to my support. He set me free in the open, and rescued me, because He loves me.

[Oratio]
Grant, O Lord, that we may always fear and love Your holy Name, for You never fail to guide those whom You firmly establish in Your love.
$Per Dominum

[Commemoratio Oratio]
!For the Octave of Corpus Christi
O God, You Who in this wondrous sacrament have left us a memorial of Your passion, grant us, we beseech You, so to venerate the sacred mysteries of Your Body and Blood that we may ever experience within us the effect of Your redemption.
$Qui vivis

[Lectio]
Lesson from the first letter of St John the Apostle
!1 John 3:13-18.
Beloved: Do not be surprised if the world hates you. We know that we have passed from death to life, because we love the brethren. He who does not love abides in death. Everyone who hates his brother is a murderer. And you know that no murderer has eternal life abiding in him. In this we have come to know His love, that He laid down His life for us; and we likewise ought to lay down our life for the brethren. He who has the goods of this world and sees his brother in need and closes his heart to him, how does the love of God abide in him? My dear children, let us not love in word, neither with the tongue, but in deed and in truth.

[Graduale]
!Ps. 119:1-2.
In my distress I called to the Lord, and He answered me.
V. O Lord, deliver me from lying lip, from treacherous tongue. Alleluia, alleluia.
!Ps 7:2
V. O Lord my God, in You I take refuge; save me from all my pursuers and rescue me. Alleluia.

[Evangelium]
Pokračování + svatého Evangelia podle Lukáše
!Lukáš 14:16-24.
Za onoho času, řekl Ježíš Fariseům toto podobenství: „Jeden člověk chystal velkou hostinu a pozval mnoho hostů. Když byl čas k hostině, poslal svého služebníka, aby vyřídil pozvaným: 'Pojďte, už je připraveno!' A najednou se začali všichni vymlouvat. První mu vzkázal: 'Koupil jsem pole, a musím se na ně jít podívat, prosím tě, omluv mě.' Druhý řekl: 'Koupil jsem pět párů býků, a jdu je vyzkoušet. Prosím tě, omluv mě.' A jiný vzkázal: 'Oženil jsem se, a proto nemohu přijít.' Služebník se vrátil a oznámil to svému pánovi. Pána domu to rozhněvalo. Řekl služebníkovi: 'Jdi rychle na náměstí a do ulic města a přiveď sem žebráky a mrzáky, slepé a chromé!' Služebník pak hlásil: 'Pane, stalo se, cos nařídil, a ještě je místo.' A pán řekl služebníkovi: 'Jdi ven na cesty a k plotům a přinuť lidi, ať přijdou, aby se můj dům naplnil. Ale to vám říkám: Žádný z těch pozvaných neokusí z mé hostiny!'“

[Offertorium]
!Ps. 6:5.
Return, O Lord, save my life; rescue me because of Your kindness.

[Secreta]
May the sacrifice we are about to offer unto Your holy Name, O Lord, make us pure, and day by day help us to live a more heavenly life.
$Per Dominum

[Commemoratio Secreta]
!For the Octave of Corpus Christi
Graciously give Your Church, we beseech You, O Lord, the gifts of unity and peace which are betokened by the gifts we offer.
$Per Dominum

[Communio]
!Ps. 12:6.
I will sing of the Lord, He has been good to me; and I will sing to the Name of the Lord the Most High.

[Postcommunio]
We beseech You, O Lord, that having received Your gifts, each partaking of this sacrament may increase within us its saving effects.
$Per Dominum

[Commemoratio Postcommunio]
!For the Octave of Corpus Christi
Grant, we beseech You, O Lord, that we may be filled with that everlasting enjoyment of Your Godhead, as foreshadowed here on earth by the partaking of Your precious Body and Blood.
$Qui vivis
