[Officium]
neděle IV. doby Svatopostní

[Introitus]
!Isa 66:10-11
v. Rejoice, O Jerusalem, and come together, all you who love her: rejoice with joy, you who have been in sorrow: that you may exult, and be filled from the breasts of your consolation.
!Ps 121:1
I rejoiced because they said to me, We will go up to the house of the Lord.
&Gloria
v. Rejoice, O Jerusalem, and come together, all you who love her: rejoice with joy, you who have been in sorrow: that you may exult, and be filled from the breasts of your consolation.

[Oratio]
Popřej, prosíme, všemohoucí Bože, abychom, když po zásluze za své počínání trpíme, útěchou tvé milosti pookřáli.
$Per Dominum

[Lectio]
Lesson from the Epistle of St. Paul to the Galatians
!Gal 4:22-31
Brethren: It is written that Abraham had two sons, the one by a slave-girl and the other by a free woman. And the son of the slave-girl was born according to the flesh, but the son of the free woman in virtue of the promise. This is said by way of allegory. For these are the two covenants: one indeed from Mount Sinai bringing forth children unto bondage, which is Agar. For Sinai is a mountain in Arabia, which corresponds to the present Jerusalem, and is in slavery with her children. But that Jerusalem which is above is free, which is our mother. For it is written, Rejoice, O barren one, that do not bear; break forth and cry, you that do not travail; for many are the children of the desolate, more than of her that has a husband. Now we, brethren, are the children of the promise, as Isaac was. But as then he who was born according to the flesh, persecuted him who was born according to the spirit, so also it is now. But what does the Scripture say? Cast out the slave-girl and her son, for the son of the slave-girl shall not be heir with the son of the free woman.Therefore, brethren, we are not children of a slave-girl, but of the free woman - in virtue of the freedom wherewith Christ has made us free.

[Graduale]
!Ps 121: 1, 7
I rejoiced because they said to me, We will go up to the house of the Lord.
V. May peace be within your walls, prosperity in your buildings.
_
!Tract
!Ps 124:1-2
They who trust in the Lord are like Mount Sion, which is immovable; which forever stands.
V. Mountains are round about Jerusalem; so the Lord is round about His people, both now and forever.

[Evangelium]
Pokračování ++ svatého Evangelia podle Jana
!Jan 6:1-15
Za onoho času odešel Ježíš na druhou stranu Galilejského neboli Tiberiadského moře. Šel za ním velký zástup, protože viděli znamení, která konal na nemocných. Ježíš vystoupil na horu a tam se posadil se svými učedníky. Bylo krátce před židovskými velikonočními svátky. Když Ježíš pozdvihl oči a uviděl, jak k němu přichází velký zástup, řekl Filipovi: „Kde nakoupíme chleba, aby se ti lidé najedli?“ To však řekl, aby ho zkoušel, protože sám dobře věděl, co chce udělat. Filip mu odpověděl: „Za dvě stě denárů chleba jim nestačí, aby se na každého aspoň něco dostalo.“ Jeden z jeho učedníků ‒ Ondřej, bratr Šimona Petra ‒ mu řekl: „Je tu jeden chlapec, ten má pět ječných chlebů a dvě ryby. Ale co to je pro tolik lidí?“ Ježíš řekl: „Postarejte se, ať se lidé posadí!“ Bylo pak na tom místě mnoho trávy. Posadili se tedy, mužů bylo asi pět tisíc. Potom Ježíš vzal chleby, vzdal díky a rozdělil je sedícím; stejně i ryby, kolik kdo chtěl. Když se najedli, řekl učedníkům: „Seberte zbylé kousky, aby nepřišlo nic nazmar!“ Sebrali je tedy a bylo to plných dvanáct košů kousků, které po jídle zbyly z pěti ječných chlebů. Když lidé viděli znamení, které udělal, říkali: „To je jistě ten Prorok, který má přijít na svět!“ Ježíš poznal, že chtějí přijít a zmocnit se ho, aby ho prohlásili za krále. Proto se zase odebral na horu, úplně sám.

[Offertorium]
!Ps 134:3, 6
Praise the Lord, for He is good; sing praise to His Name, for He is sweet; all that He wills He does in heaven and on earth.

[Secreta]
Look with favor, we beseech You, O Lord, upon the offerings here before You, that they may be beneficial for our devotion and salvation.
$Per Dominum

[Communio]
!Ps 121:3-4
Jerusalem, built as a city, with compact unity: to it the tribes go up, the tribes of the Lord, to give thanks to Your Name, O Lord.

[Postcommunio]
Grant, we beseech You, merciful God, that we may treat with sincere reverence, and consume with heartfelt faith Your sacrament, which ever fills us to overflowing.
$Per Dominum
