[Rank]
Feria Quarta infra Hebdomadam III post Octavam Paschae;;Feria;;1

[Rule]
Una Antiphona
Feria Te Deum

[Lectio1]
Lesson from the book of Revelations
!Rev 5:1-7
1 And I saw in the right hand of him that sat on the throne, a book written within and without, sealed with seven seals.
2 And I saw a strong angel, proclaiming with a loud voice: Who is worthy to open the book, and to loose the seals thereof?
3 And no man was able, neither in heaven, nor on earth, nor under the earth, to open the book, nor to look on it.
4 And I wept much, because no man was found worthy to open the book, nor to see it.
5 And one of the ancients said to me: Weep not; behold the lion of the tribe of Juda, the root of David, hath prevailed to open the book, and to loose the seven seals thereof.
6 And I saw: and behold in the midst of the throne and of the four living creatures, and in the midst of the ancients, a Lamb standing as it were slain, having seven horns and seven eyes: which are the seven Spirits of God, sent forth into all the earth.
7 And he came and took the book out of the right hand of him that sat on the throne.

[Responsory1]
R. Thy streets, O Jerusalem, shall be paved with pure gold, Alleluia, and the song of joy shall be sung in thee. Alleluia.
* And all that pass through all thy streets shall say Alleluia, Alleluia.
V. Thy light shall be exceeding glorious, and all the ends of the earth shall worship thee.
R. And all that pass through all thy streets shall say Alleluia, Alleluia.

[Lectio2]
!Rev 5:8-10
8 And when he had opened the book, the four living creatures, and the four and twenty ancients fell down before the Lamb, having every one of them harps, and golden vials full of odours, which are the prayers of saints:
9 And they sung a new canticle, saying: Thou art worthy, O Lord, to take the book, and to open the seals thereof; because thou wast slain, and hast redeemed us to God, in thy blood, out of every tribe, and tongue, and people, and nation.
10 And hast made us to our God a kingdom and priests, and we shall reign on the earth.

[Responsory2]
R. The people of Israel sung: Alleluia and all the multitude of Jacob sung in measure.
* And David was with the singers, (and) played upon an harp in the house of the Lord, and sung praises unto God. Alleluia, Alleluia.
V. So the Priests and the Levites were sanctified, and all Israel brought up the ark of the covenant of the Lord with shouting.
R. And David was with the singers, (and) played upon an harp in the house of the Lord, and sung praises unto God. Alleluia, Alleluia.
&Gloria
R. And David was with the singers, (and) played upon an harp in the house of the Lord, and sung praises unto God. Alleluia, Alleluia.

[Lectio3]
!Rev 5:11-14
11 And I beheld, and I heard the voice of many angels round about the throne, and the living creatures, and the ancients; and the number of them was thousands of thousands,
12 Saying with a loud voice: The Lamb that was slain is worthy to receive power, and divinity, and wisdom, and strength, and honour, and glory, and benediction. 
3 And every creature, which is in heaven, and on the earth, and under the earth, and such as are in the sea, and all that are in them: I heard all saying: To him that sitteth on the throne, and to the Lamb, benediction, and honour, and glory, and power, for ever and ever.
14 And the four living creatures said: Amen. And the four and twenty ancients fell down on their faces, and adored him that liveth for ever and ever.

[Responsory3]
@Tempora/Pasc3-1Feria:Responsory1

[Ant 2]
Abide with us * for it is toward evening, and the day is far spent. Alleluia.

[Oratio 2]
Almighty God, Who showest to them that be in error the light of thy truth, to the intent that they may return into the way of righteousness grant unto all them that are admitted into the fellowship of Christ's Religion, that they may eschew those things that are contrary to their profession, and follow all such things as are agreeable to the same.
$Per Dominum

[Ant 3]
Your sorrow, Alleluia * shall be turned into joy Alleluia.

[Oratio 3]
Almighty God, Who showest to them that be in error the light of thy truth, to the intent that they may return into the way of righteousness grant unto all them that are admitted into the fellowship of Christ's Religion, that they may eschew those things that are contrary to their profession, and follow all such things as are agreeable to the same.
$Per Dominum
