[Rank]
Feria Tertia in Rogationibus;;Feria;;1.6

[Rank1960]
Feria Tertia in Rogationibus;;Feria;;1

[Rule]
Oratio Dominica
Una Antiphona
Feria Te Deum
Laudes Litania
Doxology=Pasc

[Lectio1]
Lesson from the first letter of St Peter the Apostle
!1 Pet 4:1-7
1 Christ therefore having suffered in the flesh, be you also armed with the same thought: for he that hath suffered in the flesh, hath ceased from sins:
2 That now he may live the rest of his time in the flesh, not after the desires of men, but according to the will of God.
3 For the time past is sufficient to have fulfilled the will of the Gentiles, for them who have walked in riotousness, lusts, excess of wine, revellings, banquetings, and unlawful worshipping of idols.
4 Wherein they think it strange, that you run not with them into the same confusion of riotousness, speaking evil of you.
5 Who shall render account to him, who is ready to judge the living and the dead.
6 For, for this cause was the gospel preached also to the dead: that they might be judged indeed according to men, in the flesh; but may live according to God, in the Spirit.
7 But the end of all is at hand.

[Responsory1]
R. Bless ye God in the congregations Alleluia.
* Even the Lord, ye that are of the fountains of Israel Alleluia, Alleluia.
V. Sing forth the honour of His Name, make His praise glorious.
R. Even the Lord, ye that are of the fountains of Israel Alleluia, Alleluia.

[Lectio2]
!1 Pet 4:7-11
Be prudent therefore, and watch in prayers. But before all things have a constant mutual charity among yourselves: for charity covereth a multitude of sins.
9 Using hospitality one towards another, without murmuring,
10 As every man hath received grace, ministering the same one to another: as good stewards of the manifold grace of God.
11 If any man speak, let him speak, as the words of God. If any man minister, let him do it, as of the power, which God administereth: that in all things God may be honoured through Jesus Christ: to whom is glory and empire for ever and~
ever. Amen.

[Responsory2]
R. With my whole heart Alleluia have I sought thee Alleluia.
* O let me not wander from thy commandments Alleluia, Alleluia.
V. Blessed art Thou, O Lord teach me thy statutes.
R. O let me not wander from thy commandments Alleluia, Alleluia.
&Gloria
R. O let me not wander from thy commandments Alleluia, Alleluia.

[Lectio3]
!1 Pet 4:12-19
12 Dearly beloved, think not strange the burning heat which is to try you, as if some new thing happened to you;
13 But if you partake of the sufferings of Christ, rejoice that when his glory shall be revealed, you may also be glad with exceeding joy.
14 If you be reproached for the name of Christ, you shall be blessed: for that which is of the honour, glory, and power of God, and that which is his Spirit, resteth upon you.
15 But let none of you suffer as a murderer, or a thief, or a railer, or a coveter of other men's things.
16 But if as a Christian, let him not be ashamed, but let him glorify God in that name.
17 For the time is, that judgment should begin at the house of God. And if first at us, what shall be the end of them that believe not the gospel of God?
18 And if the just man shall scarcely be saved, where shall the ungodly and the sinner appear? 
19 Wherefore let them also that suffer according to the will of God, commend their souls in good deeds to the faithful Creator. 

[Responsory3]
R. Let now the redeemed of the Lord Alleluia
* Say Alleluia, Alleluia, Alleluia.
V. Let them whom He hath redeemed from the hand of the enemy, and gathered them out of the lands.
R. Say Alleluia, Alleluia, Alleluia.
&Gloria
R. Say Alleluia, Alleluia, Alleluia.

[Ant 2]
Christ ought to have suffered, * and to have risen again from the dead. Alleluia.

[Oratio 2]
O God, from Whom all good things do come, grant to us thy humble servants that by thy holy inspiration we may think those things that be good, and by thy merciful guiding may perform the same.
$Per Dominum

[Ant 3]
I came forth from the Father, * and am come into the world again I leave the~
world, and go to the Father. Alleluia.
