9:1 (Unto the end, for the hidden things of the Son. A psalm for David.)
9:2 I will give praise to thee, O Lord, with my whole heart: I will relate all thy wonders.
9:3 I will be glad, and rejoice in thee: I will sing to thy name, O thou most high.
9:4 When my enemy shall be turned back: they shall be weakened, and perish before thy face.
9:5 For thou hast maintained my judgment and my cause: thou hast sat on the throne, who judgest justice.
9:6 Thou hast rebuked the Gentiles, and the wicked one hath perished; thou hast blotted out their name for ever and ever.
9:7 The swords of the enemy have failed unto the end: and their cities thou hast destroyed. Their memory hath perished with a noise:
9:8 But the Lord remaineth for ever. He hath prepared his throne in judgment:
9:9 And he shall judge the world in equity, he shall judge the people in justice.
9:10 And the Lord is become a refuge for the poor: a helper in due time in tribulation.
9:11 And let them trust in thee who know thy name: for thou hast not forsaken them that seek thee, O Lord.
9:12 Sing ye to the Lord, who dwelleth in Sion: declare his ways among the Gentiles:
9:13 For requiring their blood, he hath remembered them: he hath not forgotten the cry of the poor.
9:14 Have mercy on me, O Lord: see my humiliation which I suffer from my enemies.
9:15 Thou that liftest me up from the gates of death, that I may declare all thy praises in the gates of the daughter of Sion.
9:16 I will rejoice in thy salvation: the Gentiles have stuck fast in the destruction which they prepared. Their foot hath been taken in the very snare which they hid.
9:17 The Lord shall be known when he executeth judgments: the sinner hath been caught in the works of his own hands.
9:18 The wicked shall be turned into hell, all the nations that forget God.
9:19 For the poor man shall not be forgotten to the end: the patience of the poor shall not perish for ever.
9:20 Arise, O Lord, let not man be strengthened: let the Gentiles be judged in thy sight.
9:21 Appoint, O Lord, a lawgiver over them: that the Gentiles may know themselves to be but men.
9:22 Why, O Lord, hast thou retired afar off? why dost thou slight us in our wants, in the time of trouble?
9:23 Whilst the wicked man is proud, the poor is set on fire: they are caught in the counsels which they devise.
9:24 For the sinner is praised in the desires of his soul: and the unjust man is blessed.
9:25 The sinner hath provoked the Lord, according to the multitude of his wrath, he will not seek him:
9:26 God is not before his eyes: his ways are filthy at all times. Thy judgments are removed form his sight: he shall rule over all his enemies.
9:27 For he hath said in his heart: I shall not be moved from generation to generation, and shall be without evil.
9:28 His mouth is full of cursing, and of bitterness, and of deceit: under his tongue are labour and sorrow.
9:29 He sitteth in ambush with the rich, in private places, that he may kill the innocent.
9:30 His eyes are upon the poor man: he lieth in wait, in secret, like a lion in his den. He lieth in ambush, that he may catch the poor man: so catch the poor, whilst he draweth him to him.
9:31 In his net he will bring him down, he will crouch and fall, when he shall have power over the poor.
9:32 For he hath said in his heart: God hath forgotten, he hath turned away his face, not to see to the end.
9:33 Arise, O Lord God, let thy hand be exalted: forget not the poor.
9:34 Wherefore hath the wicked provoked God? for he hath said in his heart: He will not require it.
9:35 Thou seest it, for thou considerest labour and sorrow: that thou mayst deliver them into thy hands. To thee is the poor man left: thou wilt be a helper to the orphan.
9:36 Break thou the arm of the sinner and of the malignant: his sin shall be sought, and shall not be found.
9:37 The Lord shall reign to eternity, yea, for ever and ever: ye Gentiles shall perish from his land.
9:38 The Lord hath heard the desire of the poor: thy ear hath heard the preparation of their heart.
9:39 To judge for the fatherless and for the humble, that man may no more presume to magnify himself upon earth.
