[Rank]
Feria III infra Hebdomadam II post Epiphaniam;;Feria;;1;;

[Rule]
Oratio Dominica

[Lectio1]
Lesson from the second letter of St Paul the Apostle to the Corinthians
!2 Cor 5:1-4
1 For we know, if our earthly house of this habitation be dissolved, that we have a building of God, a house not made with hands, eternal in heaven.
2 For in this also we groan, desiring to be clothed upon with our habitation that is from heaven.
3 Yet so that we be found clothed, not naked.
4 For we also, who are in this tabernacle, do groan, being burthened; because we would not be unclothed, but clothed upon, that that which is mortal may be swallowed up by life.

[Responsory1]
R. O God, give ear unto my tears; hold not thy peace, but, O, spare me!
* For I am a stranger with thee, and a sojourner.
V. Be pleased, O Lord, to deliver me; O Lord, look upon me to help me.
R. For I am a stranger with thee, and a sojourner.

[Lectio2]
!2 Cor 5:6-10
6 Therefore having always confidence, knowing that, while we are in the body, we are absent from the Lord.
7 (For we walk by faith, and not by sight.)
8 But we are confident, and have a good will to be absent rather from the body, and to be present with the Lord.
9 And therefore we labour, whether absent or present, to please him.
10 For we must all be manifested before the judgement seat of Christ, that every one may receive the proper things of the body, according as he hath done, whether it be good or evil.

[Responsory2]
R. The Lord hath set my feet upon a rock, and ordered my goings.
* And He hath put a new song in my mouth.
V. He heard my cry He brought me up also out of an horrible pit.
R. And He hath put a new song in my mouth.

[Lectio3]
!2 Cor 5:11-15
11 Knowing therefore the fear of the Lord, we use persuasion to men; but to God we are manifest. And I trust also that in your consciences we are manifest.
12 We commend not ourselves again to you, but give you occasion to glory in our behalf; that you may have somewhat to answer them who glory in face, and not in heart.
13 For whether we be transported in mind, it is to God; or whether we be sober, it is for you.
14 For the charity of Christ presseth us: judging this, that if one died for all, then all were dead.
15 And Christ died for all; that they also who live, may not now live to themselves, but unto him who died for them, and rose again.

[Responsory3]
R. I said: Lord, be merciful unto me.
* Heal my soul, for I have sinned against thee.
V. Deliver me from all mine iniquities, O Lord.
R. Heal my soul, for I have sinned against thee.
&Gloria
R. Heal my soul, for I have sinned against thee.
