[Rank]
S. Bonaventurae Episcopi Confessoris;;Duplex;;3;;vide C4

[Rank1570]
S. Bonaventurae Episcopi Confessoris;;Semiduplex;;2;;vide C4

[Name]
Bonaventure

[Rule]
vide C4;mtv
9 lectiones

[Oratio]
God, Who didst give unto thy people thy blessed servant Bonaventure, to feed them with the bread of eternal life, grant, we beseech thee, that even as on earth he showed unto us thy lively word, so in heaven we may worthily be holpen by the succour of his prayers to thee on our behalf.
$Per Dominum

[Lectio4]
Bonaventure was born at Bagnarea in Tuscany, in the year of our Lord 1221. In his infancy he was dangerously ill, and his mother made a vow that, if he recovered, she would dedicate him to the Order of Blessed Francis. While he was still a young man he entered the Order by his own wish. Under the teaching of Alexander of Hales he advanced so quickly in learning, that in seven years he lectured publicly at Paris on the Books of the Sentences, with great applause. He afterwards explained the same Books by a brilliant Commentary. After six years he was made General Master of his Order at Rome, in which office he did his duty with such wisdom and holiness as caused all men to talk of him and marvel at him.

[Lectio5]
He was the author of many books, in which the depth of his learning and the earnestness of his godliness affect the reader and teach him at the same time. Gregory X., moved by his reputation for wisdom and holiness, created him a Cardinal and Bishop of Albano. Blessed Thomas of Aquino gave him the title of Saint even during his life -time. It fell on this wise. Thomas found him writing the Life of St Francis, and said, Let us leave one Saint to work for the other. He departed this life at the Council of Lyons, upon the 14th day of July 1274, being of the age of 53 years, and having worked many miracles. Pope Sixtus IV. numbered him among the Saints.

[Lectio6]
From the Book of Moral Reflection on Job, written by Pope St Gregory the Great.
!Bk. ix. ch. vi.
In the Book of Job (ix. 9), it is written that it is God which maketh Arcturus, Orion, and Hyades. Now if by the constellation Orion be mystically signified the spiritual constellation of the holy Martyrs, whom can we understand to be named after them under the title of the Hyades, but the Doctors of the Holy Church? When the glorious constellation of the Martyrs had set, and the light of the faith grew stronger, then appeared the constellation of the Doctors in the firmament of the Church, even in that spring-time when the winter of unbelief was past, and the Sun of truth rose higher to shine on the hearts of His faithful ones. The storms of persecution were gone, and the long nights of unbelief were over then rose the Doctors to shine on the Church, when the springtime of belief promised her a brighter year.

[Lectio94]
Born at Bagnorea in Tuscany, Bonaventure entered the Order of St. Francis of Assisi as a young man. Here he gave himself to study, and made such progress under his teacher. Alexander of Hales, that after seven years he publicly interpreted the book of Sentences at Paris, and gained the highest praise. He was a man of the greatest sweetness and humility, with a most ardent devotion to the Passion of Christ the Lord. When he was only thirty-five he was made Minister General of the whole Order. He carried out this office so prudently that he gained fame not only for his learning and holiness, but also for his diplomacy and skill. Because of this fame, Pope Gregory X made him Cardinal Bishop of Albano. He wrote many very learned works, not the least of which were his commentaries on the four books of the Sentences. He died at Lyons while the Council was in progress, at the age of forty-three. He was enrolled among the Saints by Sixtus IV, and Sixtus V gave him the title of Seraphic Doctor.
&teDeum
