[Rank]
Sabbato infra Hebdomadam V post Epiphaniam;;Feria;;1

[Rule]
Oratio Dominica

[Lectio1]
Here begins the letter of St Paul to Philemon
!Phlm 1:1-6
1 Paul, a prisoner of Christ Jesus, and Timothy, a brother: to Philemon, our beloved and fellow labourer;
2 And to Appia, our dearest sister, and to Archippus, our fellow soldier, and to the church which is in thy house:
3 Grace to you and peace from God our Father, and from the Lord Jesus Christ.
4 I give thanks to my God, always making a remembrance of thee in my prayers.
5 Hearing of thy charity and faith, which thou hast in the Lord Jesus, and towards all the saints:
6 That the communication of thy faith may be made evident in the acknowledgment of every good work, that is in you in Christ Jesus.

[Responsory1]
@TemporaM/Epi2-3:Responsory1

[Lectio2]
!Phlm 1:7-12
7 For I have had great joy and consolation in thy charity, because the bowels of the saints have been refreshed by thee, brother.
8 Wherefore though I have much confidence in Christ Jesus, to command thee that which is to the purpose:
9 For charity sake I rather beseech, whereas thou art such a one, as Paul an old man, and now a prisoner also of Jesus Christ.
10 I beseech thee for my son, whom I have begotten in my bands, Onesimus,
11 Who hath been heretofore unprofitable to thee, but now is profitable both to me and thee,
12 Whom I have sent back to thee. And do thou receive him as my own bowels.

[Responsory2]
@TemporaM/Epi2-3:Responsory2

[Lectio3]
!Phlm 1:12-19
12 Whom I have sent back to thee. And do thou receive him as my own bowels.
13 Whom I would have retained with me, that in thy stead he might have ministered to me in the bands of the gospel:
14 But without thy counsel I would do nothing: that thy good deed might not be as it were of necessity, but voluntary.
15 For perhaps he therefore departed for a season from thee, that thou mightest receive him again for ever:
16 Not now as a servant, but instead of a servant, a most dear brother, especially to me: but how much more to thee both in the flesh and in the Lord?
17 If therefore thou count me a partner, receive him as myself.
18 And if he hath wronged thee in any thing, or is in thy debt, put that to my account.
19 I Paul have written it with my own hand: I will repay it: not to say to thee, that thou owest me thy own self also.

[Responsory3]
@TemporaM/Epi2-3:Responsory3
