[Ant 1]
Consider, O Lord, how that the city that was full with grace became desolate * she sedeth in great grief, there is none to comfort her: but you Lord, our God

[Versum 1]
V. Let the evening prayer ascend unto thee, O Lord.
R. And let there descend upon us thy mercy.

[Lectio1]
Olvasmány Ezekiel próféta könyvébõl
!Ezek 21:1-5
1 Az Úr szózatot intézett hozzám:
2 Emberfia, fordítsd arcodat dél felé, beszélj déli irányban, jövendölj a Negeb vidékének erdeje ellen!
3 Mondd a Negeb erdejének: Halld az Úr szavát! Ezt mondja az Úr, az Isten: Nézd, tüzet gyújtok benned, s az megemészt minden zöldellõ és minden száraz fát. Az emésztõ tüzet nem lehet megfékezni, úgyhogy minden képmás elég benne déltõl északig.
4 Minden ember meglátja majd, hogy én, az Úr gyújtottam meg, és nem lehet eloltani.
5 Erre azt mondtam: Jaj, Uram, Istenem, azt mondják rólam: "Ez mindig rejtélyeket mond nekünk."

[Responsory1]
@Tempora/Pent01-0:Responsory1

[Lectio2]
!Ezek 1:6-11
6 Akkor az Úr ezt a szózatot intézte hozzám:
7 Emberfia, fordítsd arcodat Jeruzsálem ellen, beszélj a szentély ellen, és jövendölj Izrael földje ellen!
8 Így beszélj Izrael földjéhez: Ezt mondja az Úr: Nézd, ellened fordulok, kirántom hüvelyébõl kardomat, és elpusztítom benned az igazat és a bûnöst.
9 Mivel igazat és bûnöst egyaránt el akarok benned pusztítani, azért minden ember ellen kijön hüvelyébõl kardom, déltõl északig.
10 S minden ember megtudja, hogy én, az Úr rántottam ki a kardot hüvelyébõl, úgyhogy többé nem tér oda vissza.
11 Te meg, emberfia, sóhajts megtört szívvel! Sóhajts keserûséggel telve a szemük láttára!

[Responsory2]
@Tempora/111-0:Responsory2

[Lectio3]
!Ezek 1:12-15
12 Ha megkérdezik tõled: "Miért sóhajtozol?" - akkor ezt feleld: "Egy hír miatt, amely ha ideér, minden szív elalél, minden kéz elerõtlenedik, minden lélek elcsügged, s minden térd szétfolyik, mint a víz. Igen, ez mind elérkezik és valóra válik - mondja az Úr, az Isten."
13 Az Úr szózatot intézett hozzám:
14 Emberfia, jövendölj! Így beszélj: Ezt mondja az Úr. Mondd: A kard, a kard ki van élesítve és meg van fenve.
15 A nagy öldöklésre van kiélesítve, hogy villogjon, azért...

[Responsory3]
@Tempora/111-0:Responsory3

[Lectio4]
From the Exposition of the Prophet Ezekiel, written by St Jerome, Priest (at Bethlehem.)
!Bk. vii. on Ez. xxi.
In the foregoing chapter it is written Son of man, set thy face toward the way of Theman, and drop thy word toward Darom, and prophesy against the forest of the field of Nageb. And say to the forest of Nageb Hear the word of the Lord Thus saith the Lord God Behold, I will kindle a fire in thee, and it shall devour every green tree in thee, and every dry tree the flaming flame shall not be quenched, and all faces from Negab to Tsaphon shall be burned therein. And all flesh shall see that I the Lord have kindled it it shall not be quenched. Then said I Ah, Lord God they say of me, Doth he not speak parables? (xx. 46-49.) But now, as the people asked for something clearer, the Lord doth speak more openly that which He had uttered in what is diversely called metaphor, parable, or proverb He showeth how that the forest of the field of Nageb, and Darom, and Theman, are figures of Jerusalem, and the Temple, and the Holy-of-Holies, and of all the land of Judah, and that by the flaming fire which should devour the forest, was to be understood that sword, which should be drawn out of the sheath, and should cut off from the land of Israel the righteous and the wicked. The righteous and the wicked are figured by the green tree and the dry tree. Whence also the Lord saith If they do these things in a green tree, what shall be done in a dry? (Luke xxiii. 31.)

[Responsory4]
@Tempora/111-0:Responsory4

[Lectio5]
The first time He had said: Set thy face toward the South, and drop thy word toward the South wind, and prophesy against the forest of the South. But forasmuch as this seemed dark, and the people knew not what the Prophet said, it is a second time stated more clearly that the forest of the South is Jerusalem and all its unfruitful trees, unto whose roots the axe is being laid, are to be understood as figures of her inhabitants and the fire to be kindled in it, to be interpreted the sword. A third time l is the Prophet commanded that when they should hold their peace, nor ask wherefore he prophesied thus, he should do that by which he should be questioned, and should answer that which the Lord had spoken.

[Responsory5]
@Tempora/111-0:Responsory5

[Lectio6]
Sigh thou, He saith, cry aloud, not softly nor only half sorrowfully, but with the breaking of thy loins, that thy groaning may come from the depth of thy bowels and from the bitterness of thy soul. And this shalt thou do before them. And when they shall ask thee wherefore thou art afflicted with such lamentation, and what evil hath befallen thee that thou groanest thus, thou shalt answer them with My word, saying I lament, and am not able to hide the grief of mine heart, because that that which hath ever sounded in mine ears will indeed be fulfilled, and cometh, even the host of the wrathful Babylonians which threateneth you and when it shall have come, and shall have made trenches all round about Jerusalem, then every heart shall melt, and all hands shall be feeble, and horror shall take hold of the minds of men, and none shall dare to withstand.

[Responsory6]
@Tempora/111-0:Responsory6

[Responsory7]
@Tempora/111-0:Responsory7

[Responsory8]
@Tempora/Pent01-0:Responsory8
