[Rank]
Dominica infra Octavam Ascensionis;;Semiduplex;;5;;ex Tempora/Pasc5-4

[Rank1960]
Dominica post Ascensionem;;Semiduplex;;5;;vide Tempora/Pasc5-4

[Rule]
vide Tempora/Pasc5-4;
9 lectiones
Doxology=Asc
StJamesRule=John,Rev

[Capitulum Vespera]
!1. Petri 4:7-8
v. My beloved. Be prudent therefore, and watch in prayers. But before all things have a constant mutual charity among yourselves: for charity covereth a multitude of sins. Using hospitality one towards another, without murmuring
$Deo gratias

[Versum 1]
V. The Lord hath prepared Alleluia.
R. His throne in heaven Alleluia.

[Ant 1]
But when the Comforter is come * Whom I will send unto you from the Father, He shall testify of Me.

[Oratio]
O Almighty and everlasting God, grant that our will be ever meekly subject unto thy will, and our heart ever honestly ready to serve thy majesty. 
$Per Dominum

[Commemoratio 1]
!Commemoratio Octavae Ascensionis.
Ant. O King of glory, Lord of hosts, * Who hast this day exalted thine Own Self, with great triumph, above all the heavens, leave us not orphans but send unto us the Promise of the Father, even the Spirit of truth. Alleluia
_
V. God is gone up with a shout Alleluia.
R. And the Lord with the sound of a trumpet Alleluia.
_
!Könyörgés.
Grant, we beseech thee, Almighty God, that like as we do believe thine Only-Begotten Son our Saviour to have this day ascended into the heavens, so we may also in heart and mind thither ascend, and with Him continually dwell
$Per eumdem
	
[Lectio1]
Olvasmány szent János apostol elsõ levelébõl
!1 John 1:1-5
1 Ami kezdettõl fogva volt, amit hallottunk, amit a szemünkkel láttunk, amit szemléltünk és amit a kezünkkel tapintottunk: az élet Igéjét hirdetjük nektek. 
2 Igen, az élet megjelent, láttuk, tanúságot teszünk róla, és hirdetjük nektek az örök életet, amely az Atyánál volt, és megjelent nekünk. 
3 Amit láttunk és hallottunk, azt nektek is hirdetjük, hogy ti is közösségben legyetek velünk. Mi ugyanis az Atyával és az õ Fiával, Jézus Krisztussal vagyunk közösségben. 
4 S azért írjuk ezeket nektek, hogy örömünk teljes legyen. 
5 Az üzenet, amelyet tõle hallottunk és nektek hirdetünk, ez: Az Isten világosság, és nincs benne semmi sötétség. 

[Responsory1]
@Tempora/Pasc5-4:Responsory1

[Lectio2]
!1 John 1:6-10
6 Ha azt állítjuk, hogy közösségben vagyunk vele, és sötétségben járunk, akkor hazudunk, és nem az igazságot tesszük. 
7 De ha világosságban járunk, ahogy õ is világosságban van, akkor közösségben vagyunk egymással, és Fiának, Jézusnak a vére minden bûnt lemos rólunk. 
8 Ha azt állítjuk, hogy nincs bûnünk, saját magunkat vezetjük félre, és nincs meg bennünk az igazság. 
9 Ha megvalljuk bûneinket, akkor mivel jó és igazságos, megbocsátja bûneinket, és minden igazságtalanságtól megtisztít minket. 
10 Ha azt állítjuk, hogy nem vétkeztünk, hazugnak tüntetjük fel, és tanítása nincs bennünk. 

[Responsory2]
@Tempora/Pasc5-4:Responsory2

[Lectio3]
!1 John 2:1-6
1 Gyermekeim! Ezeket azért írom, hogy ne kövessetek el bûnt. De ha valaki bûnbe esik, van szószólónk az Atyánál: Jézus Krisztus, az Igaz. 
2 Õ az engesztelõ áldozat bûneinkért, nemcsak a mieinkért, hanem az egész világ bûneiért is. 
3 Abból tudjuk meg, hogy megismertük, hogy megtartjuk a parancsait. 
4 Aki azt mondja: "ismerem", de a parancsait nem tartja meg, az hazudik, és nincs meg benne az igazság. 
5 De aki megtartja tanítását, abban az Isten szeretete valóban tökéletes. Innen tudjuk meg, hogy benne vagyunk. 
6 Aki azt állítja, hogy benne marad, annak úgy kell járnia, ahogyan õ járt. 

[Lectio4]
From the Sermons of St Austin, Bishop of Hippo.
!2nd 07i the Ascension.
Dearly beloved brethren, our Saviour is gone up from us into heaven, but let us not be troubled on earth. Let only our heart be there with Him, and we shall have peace here. Let us in heart thither ascend with Christ in the mean while, and when that glad day which He hath promised cometh, our body will follow. But we must know, my brethren, that there are some things that cannot ascend with Christ pride cannot, nor covetousness, nor brutishness no one of our diseases can ascend thither where our Healer is. And, therefore, if we would follow our Healer, we must needs leave our diseases and sins behind us. All such things tie us down, as it were, with bands, and hamper us in the meshes of a net of sins but, with God's help, we will say with the Psalmist "Let us break their bands asunder," (ii. 3,) that we may be able honestly to say to the Lord " Thou hast loosed my bonds I will offer to thee the sacrifice of thanksgiving,"~
(cxv. 16, 17.)

[Lectio5]
The Resurrection of the Lord is our hope the Ascension of the Lord is our glorification. To-day we keep the solemn holiday of the Ascension. If, therefore, our keeping of this holiday is to be a right, faithful, earnest, holy, godly keeping, we must in mind likewise ascend, and lift up our hearts unto the Lord. When we ascend we must not be high-minded, nor flatter ourselves with our good works, as though they were our own. We must lift up our hearts unto the Lord. When man's heart is lifted up, but not unto the Lord, such lifting-up is pride to lift up the heart unto the Lord, is to make the Most High our Refuge. Behold,~
my brethren, a great wonder. God is high, but if thou art lifted up He fleeth from thee, whereas, if thou humblest thyself, He cometh down to thee. Wherefore? "The Lord is high, yet hath He respect unto the lowly but the proud He knoweth from afar." (Ps. cxxxvii. 6.) To the lowly He hath respect, that He may raise them up the proud He knoweth from afar, that He may thrust them down.

[Lectio6]
Christ arose again, to give us hope that this mortal will yet put on immortality He hath assured against an hopeless death, and against the thought that death endeth life. We were troubled, eyen as touching the soul but Christ, arising from the grave, hath assured to us the resurrection of the body also. Believe therefore, that thou mayest be made pure. First it behoveth thee to believe, if by faith thou wouldest in the end worthily see God. And wouldest thou see God Give ear to His own words " Blessed are the pure in heart, for they shall see~
God." (Matth. v. 8.) Think first, then, how to purify thine heart take from it whatsoever thou seest in it which displeaseth God.

[Lectio7]
Evangélium szent János Apostol kõnyvébõl
!John 15:26-27; 16:1-4
Azon idõben mondá Jézus tanítványainak: Ha eljön a Vigasztaló, akit az Atyától küldök, az Igazság Lelke, aki az Atyától származik, õ majd tanúságot tesz rólam. És így tovább.
_
Homily by St Austin, Bishop of Hippo.
!Tract 92 John.
The Lord Jesus, in that discourse which He addressed to His disciples after the Last Supper, when He was on the very eve of the Passion, when He was, as it were, about to go away and leave them as touching His bodily Presence, albeit as touching His spiritual Presence He is with us alway even unto the end of the world, (Matth. xxviii. 20,) in that discourse He exhorted them to bear patiently the persecution of wicked men, of whom He speaketh as " the world " out of the which world, nevertheless, He saith that He hath chosen even His disciples~
themselves, (xv. 19,) that they might know that it was by the grace of God that~
they were what they were, (1 Cor. xv. 10,) whereas it was by their own sins that they had been what they had been.

[Responsory7]
R. And I will ask the Father: and he shall give you another Paraclete, 
* That he may abide with you for ever: the Spirit of the Truth
V. For if I go not, the Paraclete will not come to you: but if I go, I will send him to you.
R. That he may abide with you for ever: the Spirit of the Truth

[Lectio8]
If they have persecuted Me, they will also persecute you." Here He clearly pointeth to the Jews, the persecutors both of Himself and of His disciples, so that we see that they which persecute His holy ones are as much citizens of the world of damnation as they which persecuted Himself. He saith " They know not Him That sent Me," (21,) and yet again, (24,) " They have hated both Me and My~
Father," (xv. 24,) that is to say, both the Sender and the Sent, the meaning of which words we have already treated in other discourses and with that He cometh to the words " That the word might be fulfilled that is written in their law They hated Me without a cause."

[Responsory8]
R. For if I go not away, the Comforter will not come unto you but if I depart, I will send Him unto you
* And when He is come, He will guide you into all truth Alleluia.
V. For He shall not speak of Himself; but whatsoever He shall hear, that shall He speak and He will show you things to come.
R. And when He is come, He will guide you into all truth. Alleluia.
&Gloria
R. And when He is come, He will guide you into all truth. Alleluia.

[Lectio9]
Then saith the Lord, as though in continuation "But when the Comforter is come, Whom I will send unto you from the Father, even the Spirit of truth, Which proceedeth from the Father, He shall testify of Me. And ye also shall bear witness, because ye have been with Me from the beginning." What connection hath this with the words "Now have they both seen and hated both Me and My Father but that the word might be fulfilled that is written in their law They hated Me without a cause " Is it that when the Comforter is come, even the Spirit of truth, He will confound by irrefragable testimony them who have both seen and hated both God the Son and God the Father? Yea, indeed, some there were who had seen and still hated, whom the testimony of the Comforter converted to the faith which worketh by love.
&teDeum

[Ant 2]
But when the Comforter is come * Whom I will send unto you from the Father, He shall testify of Me.

[Commemoratio 2]
!Commemoratio Octavae Ascensionis.
Ant. O King of glory, Lord of hosts, * Who hast this day exalted thine Own Self, with great triumph, above all the heavens, leave us not orphans but send unto us the Promise of the Father, even the Spirit of truth. Alleluia
_
V. God is gone up with a shout Alleluia.
R. And the Lord with the sound of a trumpet Alleluia.
_
!Könyörgés.
Grant, we beseech thee, Almighty God, that like as we do believe thine Only-Begotten Son our Saviour to have this day ascended into the heavens, so we may also in heart and mind thither ascend, and with Him continually dwell
$Per eumdem
