[Rank]
Dominica V Post Pascha;;Semiduplex;;5;;

[Rule]
9 Lectiones
Una Antiphona
Doxology=Pasc

[Capitulum Vespera]
!Jas 1:22-24
v. Szeretteim: A tanítást váltsátok tettekre, ne csak hallgassátok, mert különben magatokat csaljátok meg. Ha ugyanis valaki csak hallgatja a tanítást, de nem követi, hasonlít ahhoz az emberhez, aki a természettõl kapott arcát tükörben nézegeti. Megnézi magát, aztán odébb megy, s nyomban elfelejti, milyen is volt.
$Deo gratias

[Versum 1]
V. O Lord stay with us, alleluia.
R. because it is towards evening, alleluia.

[Ant 1]
Hitherto have ye asked nothing in My Name * ask, and ye shall receive. Alleluia.

[Oratio]
O God, from Whom all good things do come, grant to us thy humble servants that by thy holy inspiration we may think those things that be good, and by thy merciful guiding may perform the same.
$Per Dominum

[Lectio1]
Olvasmány szent Péter apostol elsõ levelébõl
!1 Pet 1:1-5
1 Péter, Jézus Krisztus apostola a zarándokoknak, akik Pontusz, Galácia, Kappadócia, Ázsia és Bitinia területén szórványokban élnek, s akiket az
2 Atyaisten elõretudása birtokában kiválasztott, a Lélek megszentelõ erejébõl az engedelmességre és a Jézus Krisztus vérével való meghintésre. Kegyelemben és békében bõven legyen részetek!
3 Legyen áldott az Isten és Urunk, Jézus Krisztus Atyja, aki minket nagy irgalmában Jézusnak a halálból való feltámadása által új életre hívott, az élõ reményre,
4 hogy a mennyekben elpusztíthatatlan, tiszta és soha el nem hervadó örökség várjon rátok.
5 Az Isten hatalma megõrzött titeket a hitben az örök üdvösségre, amely készen áll, hogy az utolsó idõben majd megnyilvánuljon.

[Responsory1]
R. If I forget thee, Alleluia, let my right hand forget me.
* If I do not remember thee, let my tongue cleave to the roof of my mouth. Alleluia, Alleluia.
V. By the rivers of Babylon there we sat down and wept, when we remembered thee, O Zion
R. If I do not remember thee, let my tongue cleave to the roof of my mouth. Alleluia, Alleluia.

[Lectio2]
!1 Pet 1:6-12
6 Abban örülni fogtok, noha most egy kicsit szomorkodnotok kell, mert különféle kísértések érnek benneteket,
7 hogy a próbát kiállva hitetek, amely értékesebb a tûz próbálta veszendõ aranynál, Jézus Krisztus megjelenésekor méltó legyen a dicséretre, a dicsõségre és a tiszteletre.
8 Akit noha nem láttatok, mégis szerettek; bár most sem látjátok, mégis hisztek benne. De mivel hisztek, ujjonghattok a megdicsõültek kimondhatatlan örömével,
9 mert eléritek hitetek célját: lelketek üdvösségét.
10 Ezt az üdvösséget keresték és kutatták a próféták, akik a nektek szánt kegyelemrõl jövendöltek.
11 Töprengtek rajta, vajon milyen idõpontra vagy milyen korra mutat Krisztusnak bennük mûködõ Lelke, elõre megmondva a Krisztusra váró szenvedéseket és az azutáni dicsõséget.
12 Kinyilatkoztatást kaptak, hogy ne maguknak, hanem nektek legyenek szolgálatotokra azzal, amit az evangélium hirdetõi most közöltek veletek az égbõl küldött Szentlélek erejébõl. Ezekbe (az igazságokba) maguk az angyalok is csak vágynak bepillantani.

[Responsory2]
R. The waters saw thee, O God, the waters saw thee and they were afraid.
* There was a noise as of many waters the clouds sent out a sound. Alleluia, Alleluia, Alleluia.
V. thy lightnings lightened the world the earth saw it and shook.
R. There was a noise as of many waters the clouds sent out a sound. Alleluia, Alleluia, Alleluia.

[Lectio3]
!1 Pet 1:13-21
13 Ezért övezzétek fel gondolkodástokat, legyetek józanok, mindenestül reméljetek abban a kegyelemben, amelyet Jézus Krisztus megjelenése hoz nektek.
14 Mivel engedelmes gyermekek vagytok, életeteket ne szabjátok múltbeli vágyaitokhoz, amikor még tudatlanságban éltetek,
15 hanem mint ahogy szent, aki meghívott benneteket, legyetek ti is szentek bármilyen körülmények között;
16 mert meg van írva: "Szentek legyetek, amint én is szent vagyok."
17 Ha Atyának hívjátok azt, aki részrehajlás nélkül ítél meg mindenkit a tettei alapján, éljetek istenfélelemben zarándoklástok idején.
18 Hisz tudjátok, hogy nem veszendõ ezüstön vagy aranyon szabadultatok ki az atyáitoktól rátok hagyományozott értéktelen életmódból,
19 hanem Krisztusnak, a hibátlan és egészen tiszta báránynak a drága vére árán.
20 Õt (Isten) elõre, már a világ teremtése elõtt kiválasztotta, de csak az utolsó idõkben jelent meg, miattatok.
21 Általa hisztek Istenben, aki feltámasztotta õt a halottak közül, és megdicsõítette, hogy hitetek és reményetek Istenben legyen.

[Responsory3]
R. I will declare thy Name unto my brethren Alleluia.
* In the midst of the congregation will I praise thee Alleluia, Alleluia.
V. I will praise thee, O Lord, among the people, and sing unto thee among the nations.
R. In the midst of the congregation will I praise thee Alleluia, Alleluia.
&Gloria
R. In the midst of the congregation will I praise thee Alleluia, Alleluia.

[Lectio4]
From the Book written by St Ambrose, Bishop of Milan, on belief in the Resurrection.
!After middle
Since it was impossible that the Wisdom of God could die, and that which could not die could not rise from the dead, He took to Himself Flesh Which could die, that That Whose nature it was to die might die, and rise again. Neither was it possible that the resurrection of the dead should come otherwise than by man, "for since by man came death, by Man came also the resurrection of the dead." (1~
Cor. xv. 21.) Man He rose since Man He died, the Manhood quickened but the~
Godhead Quickener. Man then, as touching the Flesh God now, over all things. For now we know Christ no longer after the Flesh, but we owe it to the Flesh~
that we know Him as "become the First-fruits of them that slept" (1 Cor. xv. 23) "and the First-begotten of the dead" (Apoc. i. 5.)

[Responsory4]
R. Bless ye God in the congregations Alleluia.
* Even the Lord, ye that are of the fountains of Israel Alleluia, Alleluia.
V. Sing forth the honour of His Name, make His praise glorious.
R. Even the Lord, ye that are of the fountains of Israel Alleluia, Alleluia.

[Lectio5]
The first-fruits are of the same kind and nature as the other fruits, and they are brought as an offering to God l to win His blessing on the in-gathering, an holy offering made on behalf of all, and as it were the homage of restored nature. Christ then is the First-fruits of them that sleep. But is He the First-fruits of only His own loved ones that fall asleep in Him, and lie as it were untouched by death, wrapt in a sweet slumber Or is He the First-fruits of all the dead? But "as in Adam all die, even so in Christ shall all be made~
alive." (1 Cor. xv. 22.) So that, as in Adam were the first-fruits of the death wherein all die, even so in Christ were the first-fruits of the resurrection, wherein all rise again. But let no man be hopeless, neither let it be a grief to the righteous to remember that to rise again will be common to all men, when he looketh for that day wherein the harvest of his life will nobly realise itself. All shall rise again, "but," as saith the Apostle (23,) "every man in his own order." The harvest of God's mercy will be for all, but in reward one man shall differ from another.

[Responsory5]
R. With my whole heart Alleluia have I sought thee Alleluia.
* O let me not wander from thy commandments Alleluia, Alleluia.
V. Blessed art Thou, O Lord teach me thy statutes.
R. O let me not wander from thy commandments Alleluia, Alleluia.

[Lectio6]
I tell you how grievous an outrage against God it is not to believe in the resurrection. If we shall Is this not rise again, then did Christ die in vain, then is Christ not risen For if [if He rose at all,] He rose for us, and if He had not us to rise for, then He is plainly not risen. In Him the world, in Him the heavens, in Him the earth rose again. For there shall be " a new heaven, and a new earth" (Apoc. xxi. 1.) For Himself He needed not to rise Whom the bands of death held not. For although He died as Man, yet was He free in the netherworld itself. Wouldest thou hear how free "I am as a man that hath no strength, free among the dead" (Ps. Ixxxvii. 6.) O how free Who was able to take up his life again at will (John x. 18), even as it is written that He said " Destroy this Temple, and in three days I will raise it up " (John ii. 19.) O how free Who descended into hell only to redeem others therefrom.

[Responsory6]
R. Sing us a song Alleluia.
* How shall we sing the Lord's song in a strange land Alleluia, Alleluia.
V. There they that carried us away captive required of us a song.
R. How shall we sing the Lord's song in a strange land Alleluia, Alleluia.
&Gloria
R. How shall we sing the Lord's song in a strange land Alleluia, Alleluia.

[Lectio7]
Evangélium szent János Apostol kõnyvébõl
!John 16:23-30
Azon idõben mondá Jézus tanítványainak: Bármit kértek az Atyától a nevemben, megadja nektek. És így tovább.
_
Homily by St Austin, Bishop of Hippo.
!102nd Tract on John.
We have now to consider these words of the Lord " Amen, Amen, I say unto you Whatsoever ye shall ask the Father in My Name, He will give it you." It hath already been said in the earlier part of this discourse of the Lord, for the sake of some who ask the Father in Christ's Name and receive not, that whatsoever is asked, which tendeth not to salvation, is not asked in the Name of~
the Saviour. By the words "In My Name "we must not understand the vocalization of letters and syllables, but the meaning of what is said, the honest and true meaning.

[Responsory7]
R. I will sing a new song unto thee, O God Alleluia.
* Upon a psaltery of ten strings will I sing praises unto thee. Alleluia, Alleluia.
V. Thou art my God, and I will praise thee Thou art my God, and I will exalt thee.
R. Upon a psaltery of ten strings will I sing praises unto thee. Alleluia, Alleluia.

[Lectio8]
Therefore, whosoever thinketh of Christ as he ought not to think of the Only Son of God, such an one doth not ask anything in Christ's Name, although he do actually utter letters and syllables to that effect, because by these sounds he meaneth not the Real Christ, but a fancied being who hath no existence except in the speaker's imagination. But on the other hand, whosoever thinketh of Christ as he ought to think, the same asketh in Christ's Name, and receiveth, provided only it be nothing against his own everlasting salvation but if it is good for him to receive, he receiveth. Some things are not given at once, but kept over till a more fitting season. Such is the true interpretation of the words " He will give it you " namely, that those things will be given which are good for them to ask. All the Saints also are heard when they ask for themselves, but not necessarily when they ask for their friends, or their enemies, or others, even as it is written, not simply " He will give it " but "He will give it you."

[Responsory8]
R. It is a good thing to give thanks unto the Lord Alleluia
* And to sing praises Alleluia.
V. Upon an instrument of ten strings, upon the harp with a solemn sound.
R. And to sing praises Alleluia.
&Gloria
R. And to sing praises Alleluia.

[Lectio9]
Hitherto saith the Lord, have ye asked nothing in My Name ask, and ye shall receive, that your joy may be full." This their joy, whereof He saith that it shall be full, is to be understood not of fleshly but of spiritual joy and when that joy is so great that it can be increased no more, then shall it without doubt be full. Whatsoever therefore we ask for the fulfilling of this joy, (that is, if we thereby mean grace, if we ask for that life which is the really blessed one,) that is a thing which it is meet to ask in Christ's Name. If we ask anything else than this, we ask nothing, although we do actually ask something, because all things are nothing in comparison with this.
&teDeum

[Capitulum Laudes]
!Jas 1:22-24
v. Szeretteim: A tanítást váltsátok tettekre, ne csak hallgassátok, mert különben magatokat csaljátok meg. Ha ugyanis valaki csak hallgatja a tanítást, de nem követi, hasonlít ahhoz az emberhez, aki a természettõl kapott arcát tükörben nézegeti. Megnézi magát, aztán odébb megy, s nyomban elfelejti, milyen is volt.
$Deo gratias

[Versum 2]
V. Christe, in your resurrection alleluia.
R. The heaven and the Earth cries with joy, alleluia.

[Ant 2]
I go My way to Him That sent Me * and none of you asketh Me Whither goest Thou Alleluia, Alleluia.

[Capitulum Tertia]
!Jas 1:22-24
v. Szeretteim: A tanítást váltsátok tettekre, ne csak hallgassátok, mert különben magatokat csaljátok meg. Ha ugyanis valaki csak hallgatja a tanítást, de nem követi, hasonlít ahhoz az emberhez, aki a természettõl kapott arcát tükörben nézegeti. Megnézi magát, aztán odébb megy, s nyomban elfelejti, milyen is volt.
$Deo gratias

[Capitulum Sexta]
!Jas 1:25
v. Aki ellenben figyelmesen tanulmányozza a szabadság tökéletes törvényét, és ki is tart mellette, aki nem feledékeny hallgatója, hanem tettekre váltója, az teljesítésében boldog lesz.
$Deo gratias

[Capitulum Nona]
!Jas 1:27
v. Az Isten és az Atya szemében ez az igazi, tiszta vallásosság: meglátogatni nyomorukban az árvákat és az özvegyeket, és tisztán maradni a világ szennyétõl.
$Deo gratias

[Versum 3]
V. O Lord stay with us, alleluia.
R. because it is towards evening, alleluia.

[Ant 3]
Ask, and ye shall receive, * that your joy may be full for the Father Himself loveth you, because ye have loved Me, and have believed in Me. Alleluia.
