[Rank]
Feria Quinta in Coena Domini;;Feria privilegiata, Duplex I classis;;7

[Rule]
Psalmi minores Dominica
Antiphonas horas
Omit Incipit Invitatorium Hymnus Capitulum Lectio Preces Commemoratio Suffragium Conclusion
Limit Benedictiones Oratio
9 lectiones 1960
Capitulum Versum 2
Minores sine Antiphona 

[Ant Matutinum]
For the zeal of thy house hath eaten me up: and the reproaches of them that reproached thee are fallen upon me;;68
Let them be turned backward, and blush for shame that desire evils to me;;69
Deliver me, O my God, out of the hand of the sinner;;70
V. Let them be turned backward,
R. blush for shame that desire evils to me
For he shall deliver the poor from the mighty: and the needy that had no helper;;71
The wicked men have thought and spoken wickedness: they have spoken iniquity on high;;72
Rise up, O Lord, judge me, and my cause from the nation that is not holy:;;73
V. Deliver me, O my God, out of the hand of the sinner,
R. Out of the hand of the transgressor of the law and of the unjust.
I said to the wicked: speak not iniquity against God;;74
The earth trembled and was still, when God arose in judgment;;75
In the day of my trouble I sought God, with my hands;;76
V. Arise, O God
R. And judge my cause

[Lectio1]
Olvasmány Jeremiás próféta siralmainak könyvébõl
!Lam 1:1-5
1 Ó, mily elhagyottan ül a város, amely egykor tele volt néppel! Olyan, mint az özvegy, bár nagy volt a népek között. A tartományok úrnõjét, lám, robotra fogták.
2 Csak sír, egyre sír éjjelente, könnyei peregnek az arcán. Azok közül, akik szerették, egy sincs, hogy vigasztalja. Barátai mind cserbenhagyták, és ellenségeivé lettek.
3 Számkivetésbe került Júda, alávetve elnyomásnak, nehéz szolgaságnak. A pogány népek között lakik, s nem talál nyugalmat. Üldözõi mind utolérték, ott, ahol nem volt menekvése.
4 A Sionra vivõ utak gyászolnak, mert nincs, aki ünnepelni jönne. Kapui mind elhagyottak, papjai sóhajtoznak. Lányai gyászban vannak, és õ maga is csupa keserûség.
5 Akik szorongatták, fölé kerekedtek, ellenségei dúskálkodnak. Maga az Úr sújtott le rá, tömérdek vétke miatt. Gyermekei fogságba mentek, az elnyomó szeme láttára.
r. Jerusalem, Jerusalem, térj meg Uradhoz Istenedhez.

[Responsory1]
R. He prayed to the Father in the mountain of Olives: My Father, if it be possible, let this chalice pass from me.
*. The spirit indeed is willing, but the flesh weak
V. Watch ye, and pray that ye enter not into temptation.
R. The spirit indeed is willing, but the flesh weak

[Lectio2]
!Lam 1:6-9
6 Sion leányának eltûnt minden dicsõsége. Fejedelmei olyanok lettek, mint a kosok, amelyek nem találnak legelõt. Erejüket vesztve vonszolják magukat üldözõik elõtt.
7 Jeruzsálem emlékezetébe idézi nyomorúsága és elnyomatása napjait, amikor népe ellenség kezére került, és senki nem sietett segítségére. Elnyomói látták ezt, és mulattak pusztulásán.
8 Súlyosan vétkezett Jeruzsálem, és tisztátalanná vált. Azok, akik tisztelték, most mind megvetik, mert látják gyalázatát. Õ maga meg csak sóhajtozik, és szégyenében elfordítja arcát.
9 Szenny borítja ruhája szegélyét; nem gondolta volna, hogy ilyen végre jut. Szörnyû mélyre süllyedt, és nincs, aki vigasztalja. "Uram, lásd meg nagy nyomorúságomat, mert ellenségem ujjong fölöttem."
r. Jerusalem, Jerusalem, térj meg Uradhoz Istenedhez.

[Responsory2]
R. My soul is sorrowful even unto death; stay you here, and watch: look at the multitude approching me
* You run away * and I go immolated for you
V. Behold, the hour is here * and the Son of man shall be betrayed to the hand of the sinners
R. You run away * and I go immolated for you.

[Lectio3]
!Lam 1:10-14
10 Az ellenség kinyújtotta kezét minden drágasága felé. S látnia kellett, amint a pogányok behatoltak szentélyébe; azok, akiknek megtiltottad, hogy belépjenek gyülekezetedbe.
11 Egész népe sóhajtozik, és kenyér után eseng. Odaadják élelemért minden kincsüket, csak hogy megmentsék életüket. "Nézz rám, Uram, és vedd észre, mennyire megvetnek!"
12 Ó, ti mindnyájan, akik erre jártok az úton, nézzetek ide és lássátok: Van-e oly fájdalom, mint az én fájdalmam? Mert lesújtott rám az Úr izzó haragjának napján.
13 Tüzet bocsátott le a magasból, s az átjárta minden csontomat. Hálót feszített ki a lábam elõtt, és elbuktatott. Elhagyatott lettem, s nyomorult egyszer s mindenkorra.
14 Súlyosan rám nehezedik vétkeim igája, az õ keze rótta össze. Az Úr igája nyomja nyakamat, s maradék erõm fogytán van. Ellenségeim kénye-kedvére hagyott az Úr, s nincs erõm, hogy ellenálljak.
r. Jerusalem, Jerusalem, térj meg Uradhoz Istenedhez.

[Responsory3]
R. There is no beauty in him, nor comeliness: and we have seen him, and there was no sightliness, that we should be desirous of him: hi carried our sins, and hi suffered for us: he was wounded for our iniquities
* by whose stripes you were healed.
V. Surely he hath borne our infirmities and carried our sorrows.
R. by whose stripes you were healed.
&Gloria
R. There is no beauty in him, nor comeliness: and we have seen him, and there was no sightliness, that we should be desirous of him: hi carried our sins, and hi suffered for us: he was wounded for our iniquities * by whose stripes you were healed.


[Lectio4]
From the Treatise of St Austin, Bishop (of Hippo)
!Upon the Psalms (liv. 1.)
Give ear to my prayer, O God, and despise not my supplication : attend unto me and hear me. These are the words of a man travailing, anxious, and troubled. He prayeth in the midst of much suffering, longing to be rid of his affliction. J Our part is to see what that his affliction was, and when he hath told us, to acknowledge that we also suffer therefrom; that so, partaking in his trouble, we may take part also in his exercise, and am troubled. Wherein mourned he? Wherein was he troubled? He saith : In my exericise. In the next words he giveth us to know that his affliction was the oppression of the wicked, ( Because of the voice of the enemy, and because of the oppression of the wicked,) and this suffering which came upon him at the hands of wicked men, he hath called his exercise. Think not that wicked men are in this world for nothing, or that God doth no good with them. Every wicked man liveth, either to repent, or to exercise the righteous.

[Responsory4]
R. Mine own friend hath betrayed Me by the sign of a kiss : Whomsoever I shall kiss, That Same is He hold Him fast. This was the traitorous sign which he gave, even he who murdered with a kiss.
* Woe unto that man! He cast down the price of blood, and went, and hanged himself.
V. It had been good for that man if he had not been born.
R. Woe unto that man! He cast down the price of blood, and went, and hanged himself.

[Lectio5]
Would to God that they which now exercise us were converted and exercised with us! Yet, while they are as they are, and exercise us, we will not hate them : for we know not of any one of them whether he will endure to the end in his sin. Yea, oftentimes, when thou deemest that thou hatest thine enemy, he whom thou hatest is thy brother, and thou knowest it not. The Holy Scriptures show us that the devil and his angels are already damned unto everlasting fire, and therefore of their repentance it behoveth us to despair; but of theirs only. These are they against whom we wrestle within; to the which wrestling the Apostle stirreth us up where he saith : We wrestle not against flesh and blood, (that is, not against men whom we see,) but against principalities, against powers, against the rulers of the darkness of this world. (Eph. vi. 12.) He saith not the rulers of this world, lest perchance thou shouldest deem that devils are the lords of heaven and earth; what he doth say is, rulers of the darkness of this world, of that world which they love who love the world, of that world wherein the ungodly and unrighteous do prosper, of that world, in fine, of which the Gospel saith : And the world knew Him not.

[Responsory5]
R. The vile trader Judas came to the Lord to kiss Him, and He, as a guileless Lamb, refused not a kiss to Judas,
* Who, for a certain number of pence, betrayed Christ to the Jews.
V. It had been good for that man if he had not been born.
R. Who, for a certain number of pence, betrayed Christ to the Jews.

[Lectio6]
We have seen iniquity and strife in A the city. (v. 10.) Behold, the glory of the Cross. That Cross which was the object of the insults of God's enemies, is established now above the brows of kings. The end hath shown the measure of its power : it hath conquered the world, not by the sword, but by its wood. The enemies of God thought the Cross a meet object of insult and ridicule, yea, they stood before it, wagging their heads and saying : If He be the Son of God, let Him come down from the Cross! (Matth. xxvii. 39, 40.) And He stretched forth His Hands unto a disobedient and gainsaying people. (Rom. x. 21.) If he is just which liveth by faith, (Rom. i. 17; Hab. ii. 4,) he is unjust that hath not faith. Therefore where is written iniquity we may understand unbelief. The Lord therefore saith that He saw iniquity and strife in the city, and that He stretched forth His Hands unto that disobedient and gainsaying people, and, disobedient and gainsaying as they were, He was hungry for their salvation, and said : Father, forgive them, for they know not what they do. (Luke xxiii. 34.)

[Responsory6]
R. One of My disciples shall betray Me this night. Woe unto that man by whom I am betrayed!
* It had been good for that man if he had not been born.
V. He that dippeth his hand with Me in the dish, the same shall betray Me into the hands of sinners.
R. It had been good for that man if he had not been born.
&Gloria
R. One of My disciples shall betray Me this night. Woe unto that man by whom I am betrayed. * It had been good for that man if he had not been born.

[Lectio7]
Szent Pál Apostol Korintusiakhoz irott levelébõl
!1 Cor 11:17-22
17 A következõ intézkedéssel kapcsolatban nem dicsérlek meg titeket, mivel összejöveteletek nem javatokra, hanem károtokra szolgál.
18 Elõször is azt hallom, hogy amikor közösségbe gyûltök, szakadás mutatkozik köztetek, s ezt részben el is hiszem.
19 Kell is, hogy szakadás legyen körötökben, mert a megbízhatók csak így tûnnek ki közületek.
20 Amikor ugyanis egybegyûltök, már nem az Úr vacsoráját eszitek,
21 hiszen étkezéskor ki-ki a saját vacsoráját veszi elõ, hogy elfogyassza, s az egyik éhen marad, a másik pedig dõzsöl.
22 Nincs otthonotok evésre-ivásra? Vagy megvetitek Isten egyházát, és megszégyenítitek a szegényeket? Mit mondjak nektek? Dicsérjelek? Ezért nem dicsérlek benneteket.

[Responsory7]
R. I am like an innocent lamb brought to sacrifice, and I knew it not: my enemies consulted together against me, saying
* Let us put wood on his bread, and cut him off from the land of the living.
V. All my enemies whispered together against me: they devised evils to me. They determined against me an unjust word, saying:
R. Let us put wood on his bread, and cut him off from the land of the living.

[Lectio8]
!1 Cor 11:23-26
23 Én ugyanis az Úrtól kaptam, amit közöltem is veletek: Urunk Jézus elárulásának éjszakáján fogta a kenyeret,
24 hálát adott, megtörte, és így szólt: "Vegyétek és egyétek, ez az én testem értetek. Ezt tegyétek az én emlékezetemre."
25 Ugyanígy vacsora után fogta a kelyhet, és így szólt: "Ez a kehely az új szövetség az én véremben. Ezt tegyétek, valahányszor isztok belõle, az én emlékezetemre."
26 Valahányszor ugyanis e kenyeret eszitek, és e kehelybõl isztok, az Úr halálát hirdetitek, amíg el nem jön.

[Responsory8]
R. Could you not watch one hour with me?
* You do not see Judas, he is not sleeping, he is hasting to betray me to the Jews
V. Why sleep you? arise, pray, lest you enter into temptation.
R. You do not see Judas, he is not sleeping, he is hasting to betray me to the Jews

[Lectio9]
!1 Cor 11:27-34
27 Ezért aki méltatlanul eszi a kenyeret vagy issza az Úr kelyhét, az Úr teste és vére ellen vét.
28 Tehát vizsgálja meg magát mindenki, s csak úgy egyék a kenyérbõl és igyék a kehelybõl,
29 mert aki csak eszik és iszik anélkül, hogy megkülönböztetné az (Úr) testét, saját ítéletét eszi és issza.
30 Ezért sokan gyöngék és betegek közületek, többen pedig meghaltak.
31 Ha megítélnénk magunkat, nem vonnánk magunkra ítéletet.
32 Ha azonban az Úr ítél meg bennünket, az fenyítésünkre szolgál, hogy ezzel a világgal együtt el ne kárhozzunk.
33 Ezért, testvéreim, ha étkezésre gyülekeztek, várjátok meg egymást.
34 Aki éhes, egyék otthon, hogy ne ítéletre gyûljetek össze. A többit majd megérkezésem után rendezem el.

[Responsory9]
R. The seniors of the people consulted together,
* that by subtilty they might apprehend Jesus, and put him to death, and come unto him as it were against a thief, with swords and clubs,
V. The chief priests and the Pharisees, gathered a council,
R. That by subtilty they might apprehend Jesus, and put him to death, and come unto him as it were against a thief, with swords and clubs.
&Gloria
R. The seniors of the people consulted together * that by subtilty they might apprehend Jesus, and put him to death, and come unto him as it were against a thief, with swords and clubs,

[Ant Laudes]
Thou mayst be justified * in thy words and mayst overcome when thou art judged
He was led * as a sheep to the slaughter; and like a lamb without voice openeth he not his mouth
My heart is broken * within me, all my bones tremble
Adhortans est * in your power, and in reflection of your holy name O Lord
He was offered * because it was his own will, and he himself carried our sins

[Versum 2]
V. For even the man of peace, in whom I trusted
R. Who ate my bread, hath greatly supplanted me.

[Ant 2]
And he that betrayed him * gave them a sign, saying: Whomsoever I shall kiss, that is he, hold him fast.

[Oratio]
v. Christ, for our sakes, humbled himself became obedient unto death.
!secreto
$Pater noster
!lower voice
&psalm(50)
_
Look down, we beseech thee, O Lord, on this thy family, for which our Lord Jesus Christ did not hesitate to be delivered up into the hands of wicked men, and to suffer the torment of the Cross.
!Finish silently
$Qui tecum

[Oratio Matutinum]
Look down, we beseech thee, O Lord, on this thy family, for which our Lord Jesus Christ did not hesitate to be delivered up into the hands of wicked men, and to suffer the torment of the Cross.
!Finish silently
$Qui tecum

[Ant Vespera]
I will take the chalice * of salvation; and I will call upon the name of the Lord.;;115
With them that hate peace * I was peaceable: when I spoke to them they fought against me without cause;;119
From the hand of the wicked * deliver me O Lord;;139
Keep me from the snare * which they have laid for me, and from the stumblingblocks of them that work iniquity;;140
I looked on my right hand * and beheld, and there was no one that would know me;;141

[Ant 3]
And whilst they were eating * Jesus took bread; and blessing, broke, and gave to  them,

[Special Completorium]
!Special Completorium
_
$Confiteor
$Misereatur
$Indulgentiam

&psalm(4)

&psalm(90)

&psalm(133)

&psalm(233)

v. Christ, for our sakes, humbled himself, became obedient unto death.
!secreto
$Pater noster
!lower voice
&psalm(50)
_
Look down, we beseech thee, O Lord, on this thy family, for which our Lord Jesus Christ did not hesitate to be delivered up into the hands of wicked men, and to suffer the torment of the Cross.
$Qui tecum
