Upon the 18th day of November is kept the feast of the Dedication of the two Cathedral Churches of St Peter and of St Paul at Rome. The Church of St Peter, after being rebuilt on a larger scale, was solemnly consecrated by Urban VIII. upon the 18th day of November (in the year 1626.) The Church of St Paul had been almost entirely destroyed by a lamentable fire, and was rebuilt in a more splendid manner, and consecrated anew by Pius IX. upon the 10th day of December but he transferred the yearly feast of the Dedication thereof to the same day as that of the Church of St Peter. 
Upon the same 18th day of November, were born into the better life
_
At Antioch, the holy martyr Romanus. In the time of the Emperor Galerius, when the Prefect Asclepiades was assailing the Church and seeking utterly to overthrow it, Romanus exhorted the other Christians to gainsay him. For this cause he was put to horrid torments, and his tongue was cut out but thereafter he still uttered the praise of God. Then he was strangled in prison, and so was crowned by a famous martyrdom. 
Before him there suffered also the little lad Barula, who was asked by Romanus whether it were better to worship one God or many gods, and answered that we ought to believe in the one God whom the Christians worship for the saying of the which thing he was first flogged and then beheaded. 
Likewise at Antioch, (about the year 304,) the holy martyr Hesychius. He was a soldier, but when he heard the command that whosoever would not sacrifice to idols should cast away his military belt, he straightway took off his belt, for which cause a large stone was tied to his right hand, and he was thrown into the river. 
On the same day, (in the fifth century,) the holy martyrs Oriculus and his Companions, who suffered for the Catholic faith in the persecution under the Vandals. 
At Maintz, holy Maximus, Bishop of that see, who suffered many things from the Arians in the time of the Emperor Constantius, and died a Confessor. 
At Tours, (in the year 942,) blessed Odo, Abbat of Cluny. 
At Antioch, (about the year 782,) the holy monk Thomas, in whose honour the Antiochenes keep a solemn feast-day every year on account of a plague which was stayed by his prayers. 
At Lucca, in Tuscany, is commemorated the finding, (in the year 800,)  of the body of the holy Confessor  Finnan, Bishop (of that see, a son of  Ultach, King of Ulster.)  
