!On coming to the altar the priest unfolds the corporal and prepares the chalice by pouring in wine and water.  When presenting the water, the server says:
S. Bless.	

!The priest blesses the water with the formula:
P. In the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Spirit. Amen.
S.  Amen.

!This blessing is not given in Masses for the Dead.  At a sung Mass (Missa Cantata) the priest does not uncover the chalice until the Responsory.  At a Solemn Mass the chalice is carried by the subdeacon to the priest who is seated on the Epistle side of the altar.

!The priest says in a low voice:
Prevent, O Lord, we beseech thee, our actions by thy inspiration, and continue them by thine assistance; that every one of our works may begin always from thee, and through thee be ended.  Through Christ our Lord.  Amen.

!Then the priest descends to the foot of the altar, makes a profound inclination, and begins with the sign of the cross:
P.  In the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Ghost. Amen.
P.  Praise the Lord for He is good.
S.  For His mercy endureth for ever.
P.  I confess to almighty God, to blessed Mary ever a virgin, to blessed Dominic our father, to all the saints and to you, brethren, that I have sinned exceedingly by thought, word, deed and omission, through my fault: I beseech you to pray for me.
S.  May almighty God have mercy on thee and forgive thee all thy sins: may he free thee from all evil, strengthen and confirm thee in every good work, and bring thee to life everlasting.
P. Amen.
S.  I confess to almighty God, to blessed Mary ever a virgin, to blessed Dominic our father, to all the saints and to you father, that I have sinned exceedingly by thought, word, deed and omission, through my fault: I beseech you to pray for me.
P.  May almighty God have mercy upon you and forgive you all your sins: may he free you from all evil, strengthen and confirm you in every good work, and bring you to life everlasting.
S.  Amen.
P.  May the almighty and merciful Lord grant you absolution and remission of all your sins.
S.  Amen.
P.  Our help is in the name of the Lord.
S.  Who made heaven and earth.

!The priest goes up to the altar, and inclining says:
Take away from us all our iniquities, O Lord, that we may be worthy to enter with pure minds into the Holy of Holies.  Through Christ our Lord.  Amen.

!After making the sign of the cross on the altar the priest kisses it; then signing himself, he goes to the missal to read the office.
P.  Lord have mercy on us.
S.  Lord have mercy on us.
P.  Lord have mercy on us.
S.  Christ have mercy on us.
P.  Christ have mercy on us.
S.  Christ have mercy on us.

P.  Lord have mercy on us.
S.  Lord have mercy on us.
P.  Lord have mercy on us.

!Then follows the Gloria (The Gloria is omitted during Advent, from Septuagesima to Holy Saturday exclusively (except on Maundy Thursday), on Ferial days and in Masses for the Dead.)
Glory to God in the highest, and on earth peace to men of good will.  We praise thee.  We bless thee.  We adore thee.  We glorify thee.  We give thee thanks for thy great glory: O Lord God, heavenly king, God the Father almighty.  O Lord Jesus Christ, the only begotten Son: O Lord God, Lamb of God, Son of the Father: who takest away the sins of the world, have mercy upon us.  Who takest away the sins of the world, receive out prayer.  Who sittest at the right hand of the Father, have mercy on us.  For thou only art holy.  Thou only art Lord.  Thou only, O Jesus Christ, art Most High, together with the Holy Ghost, in the glory of God the Father.  Amen.

!The priest turns to the people, and says:
P.  The Lord be with you.
S.  And with thy spirit.

!He then reads the Collect.
!At the end of the Collect the server answers: Amen.

!Then follow the Epistle and the Responsory, after which, going to the Gospel side of altar he says in a low voice:
P.  May the Lord be in my heart and on my lips, that I may announce the gospel of peace.

!He begins the Gospel by saying:
P.  The Lord be with you. 
S.  And with thy spirit.
P.  The continuation of the holy gospel according to …
S.  Glory be to thee, O Lord.

!While saying this he signs himself with the thumb on forehead, lips and heart, and then blesses himself with the ordinary sign of the cross.  The faithful sign themselves in the same way as the priest.
!After the Gospel the priest first blesses himself in the ordinary way, and then the missal: after which he kisses the book, saying:
P.  May our sins be washed away by the words of the gospel.

!The priest now begins the Creed in the middle of the altar, continuing it at the missal:
I believe in one God, the Father, almighty, maker of heaven and earth, and of all things visible and invisible.  And in one Lord Jesus Christ, the only begotten Son of God, born of the Father before all ages; God of God, light of light, true God of true God; begotten not made; consubstantial with the Father: by whom all things were made.  Who for us men, and for our salvation, came down from heaven (here all kneel); and was incarnate by the Holy Ghost, of the virgin Mary: AND WAS MADE MAN.  He was crucified also for us, suffered under Pontius Pilate, and was buried.  And the third day he rose again according to the scriptures; and ascended into heaven.  He sitteth at the right hand of the Father; and he shall come again with glory to judge the living and the dead: and his kingdom shall have no end.  And in the Holy Ghost, the Lord and giver of life, who proceedeth from the Father and the Son.  Who together with the Father and the Son is adored and glorified; who spoke by the prophets.  And one holy catholic and apostolic church.  I confess one baptism for the remission of sins.  And I await the resurrection of the dead, and the life of the world to come.  Amen.

P.  The Lord be with you. 
S. And with thy spirit. 
P.  Let us pray.

!The Offertory now follows.
P.  What shall I render to the Lord for all that he hath rendered to me?

!Taking up the chalice with the paten and host thereon, he says:
P.  I will take the chalice of salvation and will call upon the name of the Lord.

!While offering the chalice he says:
P.  Receive, O holy Trinity, this offering, which I present to thee in memory of the passion of our Lord Jesus Christ: and grant that it may ascend to thee worthily in thy sight, and may bring about my eternal salvation and that of all the faithful.

!In Solemn Masses the incense is used here.
!He now washes his fingers, saying at the same time:
I will wash my hands among the innocent, and will compass thine altar, O Lord, that I may hear the voice of thy praise, and tell of all thy wondrous works.  I have loved, O Lord the beauty of thy house, and the place where thy glory dwelleth.

!Bowing down in the middle of the altar he says:
In humble Spirit and with a contrite heart may we be received by thee, O Lord: and may our sacrifice be so performed that it be received by thee this day, and be pleasing to thee, O Lord God.

!He turns to the people inviting them to unite themselves with him in the mass:
Pray, brethren, that my sacrifice and yours may be pleasing in the sight of the Lord. 

!Turning back to the altar he says:
O Lord hear my prayer: and let my cry come unto thee.

!After the Secret prayers he says aloud:
P.  World without end. 
S.  Amen.

P.  The Lord be with you.
S.  And with thy spirit.
P.  Be your hearts on high.
S.  We have them with the Lord.
P.  Let us give thanks to the Lord our God.
S.  It is meet and just.

!Infra Canonem
In communion with, and celebrating the most holy day on which thine only-begotten Son, co-eternal with the in thy glory, visibly appeared in the truth of our corporal nature: and also venerating first of all the memory of the glorious Mary, ever a virgin, mother of the same God and Lord Jesus Christ: also of thy blessed apostles and martyrs, Peter and Paul, Andrew, James, John, Thomas, James, Philip, Bartholomew, Matthew, Simon and Thaddeus, Linus, Cletus, Clement, Xystus, Cornelius, Cyprian, Laurence, Chrysogonus, John and Paul, Cosmas and Damian, and of all thy saints: by whose merits and prayers grant that we may be defended in all things by thy protecting help.  Though the same Christ our Lord.  Amen.

!The Sanctus
Holy, Holy, Holy, Lord God of hosts.  Heaven and earth are full of thy glory: Hosanna in the highest.
Blessed is he that cometh in the name of the Lord: Hosanna in the highest.

!The Canon of the Mass
We therefore humbly pray and beseech thee, most merciful Father, through Jesus Christ thy Son our Lord; that thou wouldst deign to accept

!Rising, he makes the sign of the cross over the offerings three times.
And bless these + gifts, these + offerings, these + holy and unspotted sacrifices: which in the first place we offer thee for thy holy catholic church; deign to grant her peace, to protect, unite and govern her throughout the whole world: together with thy servant our Pope, N. , and our bishop, N. , and all orthodox believers and worshippers of the catholic and apostolic faith.

!The Commemeration of the Living
Be mindful, O Lord, of thy servants and handmaids, N. , and N. , and of all here present whose faith and devotion are known to thee: for whom we offer, or who offer up to thee, this sacrifice of praise for themselves and theirs; for the redemption of their souls, for the hope of their safety and salvation, and who pay their vows to thee, the eternal, living and true God.

!With hands extended he now says:
In communion with and venerating in the first place the memory of the glorious Mary, ever a virgin, mother of our God and Lord, Jesus Christ: as also of thy blessed apostles and martyrs, Peter and Paul, Andrew, James, John, Thomas, James, Philip, Bartholomew, Matthew, Simon and Thaddeus, Linus, Cletus, Clement, Xystus, Cornelius, Cyprian, Laurence, Chrysogonus, John and Paul, Cosmas and Damian, and of all thy saints: by whose merits and prayers grant that we may be defended in all things by thy protecting help.  Through the same Christ our Lord.  Amen.
We therefore beseech thee, O Lord, favourably to accept this offering of our service and that of all thy family, and to dispose our days in thy peace; and bid us be delivered from eternal damnation and be numbered among the company of thine elect.  Through Christ our Lord.  Amen.

!He makes the sign of the cross three times over the offerings.
Which oblation, we beseech thee, O God, deign to make + blessed, + enrolled, + established, reasonable and acceptable, that it may become

!He makes the sign of the cross once over the host and once over the chalice.
for us the + Body and + Blood of thy most beloved Son, our Lord Jesus Christ.
Who the day before he suffered took bread into his holy and adorable hands; and with eyes lifted to thee, O God, his almighty Father, giving

!He makes the sign of the cross over the host.
thanks to thee, did + bless, break, and give to his disciples saying, Take and eat ye all of this:
FOR THIS IS MY BODY.

!He kneels and adores the Body.  He rises, lifts the Body for the people to adore; kneels again, placing the Body on the corporal.  Then uncovering the chalice, he says:
In like manner after he had supped, taking also this chalice into his holy and adorable hands, and giving thanks to thee,

!He makes the sign of the cross over the chalice.
he blessed and gave to his disciples, saying: Take and drink ye all of this:
FOR THIS IS THE CHALICE OF MY BLOOD OF THE NEW AND ETERNAL TESTAMENT, THE MYSTERY OF FAITH: WHICH SHALL BE SHED FOR YOU AND FOR MANY UNTO THE REMISSION OF SINS.

!He adores the Blood, raises the chalice for the people, and again kneels.  Rising, he says:
As often as ye shall do these things ye shall do them in remembrance of me.

!He extends his arms in the form of a cross, saying:
Wherefore, O Lord, we thy servants, as also thy holy people, calling to mind the blessed passion of the same Christ thy Son, our Lord, and also his resurrection from hell and glorious ascension into heaven, offer unto thy most excellent majesty, of thy

!He makes the sign of the cross over body and blood three times.
presents and gifts, a pure + host, a holy + host, a spotless + host, the holy bread + of eternal life, and the chalice + of everlasting salvation.

!He extends his arms saying:
Upon which vouchsafe to look with a propitious and serene countenance, and to accept them, as thou wert graciously pleased to accept the gifts of thy righteous servant Abel and the sacrifice of our patriarch Abraham and that which thy high priest Melchisedech offered to thee, a holy sacrifice, a spotless host.

!He now inclines profoundly.
We most humbly beseech thee, almighty God, command these things to be carried by the hands of thy holy angel to thine altar on high, in the sight of thy divine majesty; that as many of us, as by participation at this altar shall receive the most sacred body

!He makes the sign of the cross over the Body, then over the Blood, then on himself.
and + blood of thy Son, may be filled with all heavenly + blessing and grace.  Through the same Christ our Lord.  Amen.

!Commemoration of the Dead
Be mindful, also, O Lord, of thy servants and handmaids who are gone before us with the sign of faith, and sleep in the sleep of peace, N.  and N.

!He pauses to think of the dead for whom he wishes to pray.
To these, O Lord, and to all that rest in Christ, grant, we beseech thee, place of refreshment, light and peace.  Through the same Christ our Lord.  Amen.

!Raising his voice and striking his breast he says:
And to us sinners: thy servants, trusting in the multitude of thy mercies, vouchsafe to grant some part and fellowship with thy holy apostles and martyrs: with John, Stephen, Matthias, Barnabas, Ignatius, Alexander, Marcellinus, Peter, Felicity, Perpetua, Agatha, Lucy, Agnes, Cecily, Anastasia, and with all thy saints: into whose company we beseech thee to admit us, not considering our merit, but freely pardoning our offences.  Through Christ our Lord.
By whom, O Lord, thou dost always create,

!He makes the sign of the cross three times.
!Then after genuflecting he holds the Body in his fingers while making the sign of the cross three times over the chalice, once at its lip, and finally at its base.
+ sanctify, + quicken, + bless, and give us these good things.
By + him, and with + him, and in + him, is to thee God, + the Father almighty, in the unity of the + Holy Ghost, all honour and glory:

!Raising his voice he says:
P.  For ever and ever.
S.  Amen.

!Oremus
Taught by thy saving precepts and following thy divine directions, we presume to say:
Our Father, who art in heaven, hallowed be thy name; thy kingdom come; thy will be done on earth as it is in heaven.  Give us this day our daily bread; and forgive us our trespasses as we forgive them that trespass against us.  And lead us not into temptation.
S.  But deliver us from evil.
P.  Amen.

!He joins his hands.
Deliver us, we beseech thee, O Lord, from all evils, past, present and to come; and by the intercession of the blessed and glorious Mary, ever a virgin, mother of God, together with thy blessed apostles Peter and Paul, and Andrew, and all the saints, graciously grant peace in our days: that by the help of thy mercy we may be always free from sin, and secure from disturbance.  Through the same Jesus Christ thy Son, our Lord, who with thee in the unity of the holy Ghost liveth and reigneth, God.

!After dividing the Body, raising his voice, he says:
P.  World without end.
S.  Amen.

!He makes the sign of the cross three times with a particle of the Body. 
P. May the peace of the Lord be always with you.
S.  And with thy spirit.

!Agnus Dei and Communion
Lamb of God, who takest away the sins of the world, have mercy on us.
Lamb of God, who takest away the sins of the world, have mercy on us.
Lamb of God, who takest away the sins of the world, grant us peace.

!He now drops the particle into the chalice.
May this most sacred commingling of the Body and Blood of our Lord Jesus Christ be to me and to all who receive it, health of mind and body; and a salutary preparation for meriting and obtaining eternal life. Through the same Jesus Christ our Lord.  Amen.

!Bowing down he says:
O Lord Jesus Christ, Son of the living God, who according to the will of the Father, through the co-operation of the Holy Ghost, hast by thy death given life to the world: deliver me by this, thy most holy Body and Blood from all my iniquities and from all evils, and make me ever cling to thy command, and never suffer me to be separated from thee: Who with the same God the Father and the Holy Ghost livest and reignest God for ever and ever.  Amen.

!Receiving the Body and Blood the priest says:
May the Body and Blood of our Lord Jesus Christ keep me unto eternal life.  Amen.

!After the priest has received the Precious Blood the server recites the Confiteor for those who wish to receive Communion.  The priest gives the Absolution, and then lifting the sacred host says:
Behold the Lamb of God: behold him who taketh away the sins of the world.

!Then he says three times:
Lord, I am not worthy that thou shouldst enter under my roof: say but the word and my soul shall he healed.

!Then he communicates the faithful saying:
May the Body of our Lord Jesus Christ keep thee unto eternal life.  Amen.

!He then washes his fingers saying:
May we house in a pure heart, O Lord, what we have received with our lips; so that of the Body and Blood of our Lord Jesus Christ there may be made for us an everlasting healing.  Amen.

!When the priest has purified and covered the chalice, he reads the Communion Antiphon, and then salutes the people.
P. The Lord be with you.
S.  And with thy spirit.

!Then he reads the Postcommunion, to which the server replies: Amen.
!He again turns towards the people, saying:
P.  The Lord be with you.
S. And with thy spirit.
P.  Go, you are dismissed.
S.  Thanks be to God.

!When the Gloria has been omitted he says:
P.  Let us bless the Lord.
S.  Thanks be to God.

In Masses for the dead he says:
P.  May they rest in peace.
S.  Amen.

!Bowing before the altar he says:
May the performance of my homage be pleasing to thee O holy Trinity; and grant that the sacrifice which I, unworthy as I am, have offered up in the sight of thy majesty may be acceptable to thee, and through thy mercy be propitiation for me, and for all for whom I have offered it. Through Christ our Lord. Amen.

!The priest then kisses the altar, and turning to the people gives them his blessing:
May the blessing of almighty God, Father, the Son, and Holy Ghost descend upon you and remain with you always. 
S.  Amen.

!Turning towards the Gospel side of the altar he says:
P.  The Lord be with you.
S.  And with thy spirit.

!While signing himself he says:
P. The beginning of the holy gospel ...
or: The continuation of the holy gospel ...
S.  Glory be to thee, O Lord.

!He then reads the Gospel of S.  John, if no other be appointed:
In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God: the same was in the beginning with God.  All things were made by him, and without him was made nothing that was made.  In him was life, and the life was the light of men; and the light shineth in darkness, and the darkness did not comprehend it. There was a man sent from God, whose name was John.  This man came for a witness to give testimony of the light, that all men might believe through Him.  He was not the light, but was to give testimony of the light.  That was the true light which enlighteneth every man that cometh into this world.  He was in the world, and the world was made by him, and the world knew him not.  He came unto his own, and his own received him not.  But as many as received him, he gave them power to become the sons of God: to them that believe in his name, who are born not of blood, nor of the will of the flesh, nor of the will of man, but of God.  (Here kneel down. ) AND THE WORD WAS MADE FLESH and dwelt among us: and we saw his glory, the glory as it were of the Only-begotten of the Father, full of grace and truth.
S. Thanks be to God.

!In England the following prayers are said for the King (or Queen) after High Mass on Sundays:
O Lord, save N. , our king; and hear us in the day that we shall call upon thee.  Glory be. 
!Let us pray
We beseech thee, almighty God, that thy servant N. , our king, who in thy merciful providence has been called to rule over this kingdom, may also receive from thee an increase of all virtues: thus becomingly adorned may he avoid all evil doing (in time of war: overcome his enemies), and by thy grace attain, together with the queen consort and their royal offspring, to thee, who art the way, the truth and the life.  Through Christ our Lord.  Amen.

!*R
# Leonine Prayers
!To be said kneeling after the celebration of Low Mass. 
P. Hail Mary, full of grace; The Lord is with thee; Blessed art thou amongst women, And blessed is the fruit of thy womb, Jesus.
A. Holy Mary, Mother of God, Pray for us sinners, now and at the hour of our death. Amen.
P. Hail Mary, full of grace; The Lord is with thee; Blessed art thou amongst women, And blessed is the fruit of thy womb, Jesus.
A. Holy Mary, Mother of God, Pray for us sinners, now and at the hour of our death. Amen.
P. Hail Mary, full of grace; The Lord is with thee; Blessed art thou amongst women, And blessed is the fruit of thy womb, Jesus. 
A. Holy Mary, Mother of God, Pray for us sinners, now and at the hour of our death. Amen.
_
A. Hail, holy Queen, Mother of Mercy, our life, our sweetness, and our hope. To thee do we cry, poor banished children of Eve. To thee do we send up our sighs, mourning and weeping in this valley of tears. Turn then, most gracious Advocate, thine eyes of mercy towards us. And after this our exile, show unto us the blessed Fruit of thy womb, Jesus.  O clement, O loving, O sweet Virgin Mary.
P. Pray for us, O Holy Mother of God.
O. That we may be made worthy of the promises of Christ.  
_ 	
P. Let us pray.  O God, our refuge and our strength, look down in mercy on Thy people who cry to Thee; and by the intercession of the glorious and Immaculate Virgin Mary, Mother of God, of St. Joseph her Spouse, of Thy blessed Apostles Peter and Paul, and of all the Saints, in mercy and goodness hear our prayers for the conversion of sinners, and for the liberty and exaltation of our holy Mother the Church. Through the same Christ our Lord. Amen.
_
A. Holy Michael Archangel, defend us in the day of battle; be our safeguard against the wickedness and snares of the devil. -- May God rebuke him, we humbly pray: and do thou, Prince of the heavenly host, by the power of God thrust down to hell Satan and all wicked spirits, who wander through the world for the ruin of souls. Amen. 
_ 
P.  Most Sacred Heart of Jesus,
A. Have mercy upon us.
P.  Most Sacred Heart of Jesus,
A. Have mercy upon us.
P.  Most Sacred Heart of Jesus,
A. Have mercy upon us.

!This aspiration is repeated three times.
