The morrow is the Octave of the Birth of the Blessed Virgin Mary. 
Upon the same 15 th day of September, were born into the better life 
_
At Rome, upon the Nomentan Way, (in the first century,) the holy martyr Nicomede the Priest. Unto them that would have forced him to offer sacrifice he said, " I do not sacrifice, save unto the Almighty God, Who reigneth in the heavens," and he was beaten with scourges loaded with lead until at last he passed away to be ever with the Lord. 
In the country of Chalons, (in the second century,) the holy martyr Valerian. The President Priscus caused him to be hung up and tormented by mangling with metal hooks, but when he saw that he could not be shaken in his confession of Christ, but continued the rather to praise Him with a glad heart, he commanded to slay him with the sword. 
At Marcianopolis, in Thrace, the holy martyr Melitina. Under the Emperor Antonine and the President Antiochus, she was twice brought to the temples of the Gentiles, but as the idols continually fell down, she was hung up and mangled, and at last beheaded. 
At Adrianople, the holy martyrs Maximus, Theodore, and Asclepiodotus, who were crowned under the Emperor Maximian. 
Also holy Porphyry, a jester who received baptism as a farce in the presence of the Emperor Julian the Apostate, and was thereupon suddenly changed by the power of God, so that he professed himself to be a Christian, and by command of the Emperor received martyrdom by the axe. 
Upon the same day, the holy Goth Nicetas, who was burnt by order of King Athanaric for the Catholic faith's sake. 
At Cordova, (in the ninth century,) the holy martyrs Emilas, the Deacon, and Jeremiah, who suffered a long imprisonment in the persecution under the Arabs, and finished their testimony by being beheaded. 
At Toul, in Lorraine, (in the fifth century,) the holy Confessor Aper, Bishop (of that see.) Likewise, (in the sixth century,) holy Lubin, Bishop of Chartres. 
At Lyons, (in the fourth century,) holy Albin, Bishop (of that see.) On the same day, (in the seventh century,) holy Aichard, Abbat (of Jumieges.) In (Auvergne, in) Gaul, (in the fifth century,) the holy widow Eutropia. 
