[Rank]
In Apparitione S. Michaelis Archangeli;;Duplex majus;;4;;

[Ant Vespera]
En engel * stod ved templets alter med et gyldent roegelseskar i haanden.
Aerkeenglen Mikael kaempede med dragen, * og jeg hørte en røst sige: Frelsen er vor Guds, halleluja.
Aerkeengel Mikael, * jeg gjorde dig til fyrste over modtagelsen af sjaele.
I Herrens engle, * lovpris Herren til evig tid.
I Engle og Aerkeengle, I Troner og Herredoemmer, I Herrevaelder og Magter, I Himlens maegtige, pris Herren fra Himlene, halleluja.

[Hymnus Vespera]
O Jesu Life, spring of the soul!
The Father's power and glory bright!
thee with the Angels we extol;
From thee they draw their life and light.
_
Thy thousand thousand hosts are spread
Embattled o'er the azure sky;
But Michael bears thy standard dread,
And lifts the mighty Cross on high.
_
He in that Sign the rebel power.
Did with their Dragon Prince expel;
And hurled them from the heaven's high towers,
Down like a thunderbolt to hell.
_
Grant us, with Michael, still, O Lord,
Against the prince of pride to fight;
So may a crown be our reward,
Before the Lamb's pure throne of light.
_
To God the Father, with the Son
And Holy Paraclete, with thee,
As evermore hath been before,
Be glory through eternity.
Amen.

[HymnusM Vespera]
v. Thee, O Christ, the Father's splendour,
Life and virtue of the heart,
In the presence of the Angels
Sing we now with tuneful art,
Meetly in alternate chorus
Bearing our responsive part.
_
Thus we praise with veneration
All the armies of the sky;
Chiefly him, the warrior Primate,
Of celestial chivalry,
Michael, who in princely virtue
Cast Abaddon from on high.
_
By whose watchful care repelling -
King of everlasting grace -
Every ghostly adversary,
All things evil, all things base,
Grant us of thine only goodness
In thy Paradise a place.
_
Laud and honour to the Father,
Laud and honour to the Son,
Laud and honour to the Spirit,
Ever Three, and ever One,
Consubstantial, co-eternal,
While unending ages run.
Amen.

[Versum 1]
V. En engel stod ved templets alter. (Halleluja.)
R. Med et gyldent roegelseskar i haanden. (Halleluja.)

[Ant 1]
Mens Johannes bevidnede det hellige mysterium, blaeste Aerkeenglen Mikael i sin basun: Tilgiv os, Herre vor Gud, du som åbner bogen og bryder dens segl, halleluja.

[Oratio]
Gud, du som ved din underfulde ledelse ordner englenes og menneskenes tjeneste, forund os i naade, at de, som altid i Himlen staar omkring dig og tjener dig, maa vaerne om vort liv her paa jorden.
$Per Dominum

[Invit]
Herren, Aerkeenglenes Konge, * Kom, lad os tilbede. (Halleluja.)

[Ant Matutinum]
The sea was moved and the earth quaked, when the Archangel Michael descended from heaven. (Alleluia.);;8
;;10
;;14
V. An Angel stood at the Altar of the Temple. (Alleluia.)
R. Having a golden censer in his hand. (Alleluia.)
Archangel Michael, come to help God's people. (Alleluia.);;18
;;23
;;33
V. The smoke of the incense ascended up before the Lord. (Alleluia.)
R. Out of the Angel's hand. (Alleluia.)
The Angel Michael the Archangel, he is the messenger whom God sendeth to all the souls of the righteous. Alleluia, Alleluia.;;95
;;96
;;102
V. Before the Angels will I sing praise unto thee, O my God. (Alleluia.)
R. I will worship toward thy holy Temple, and praise thy Name. (Alleluia.)

[Lectio1]
Laesning fra Daniels bog
!Dan 7:9-11
9 Da så jeg dette: Troner blev stillet frem, og en gammel af dage tog sæde; hans klæder var hvide som sne, og håret på hans hoved var rent som uld. Hans trone var flammer af ild, dens hjul var luende ild.
10 En flod af ild strømmede frem og løb ud foran ham. Tusind, ja tusinder tjente ham, ti tusind, ja titusinder stod foran ham. Retten blev sat, bøgerne blev åbnet.
11 Derpå så jeg dette: Jeg så, at dyret blev dræbt på grund af de store ord, som hornet talte; dets krop blev tilintetgjort og overgivet til den flammende ild.

[Responsory1]
R. Der var stilhed i Himlen, da dragen gik i krig med Aerkeenglen Mikael.
* Jeg hoerte roesten af tusind, ja tusinder sige: Nu er frelsen og magten og Riget Gud den Almaegtiges. (Halleluja.)
V. Tusind, ja tusinder tjente ham, ti tusind, ja titusinder stod foran ham.
R. Jeg hoerte roesten af tusind, ja tusinder sige: Nu er frelsen og magten og Riget Gud den Almaegtiges. (Halleluja.)

[Lectio2]
!Dan 10:4-8
4 På den fireogtyvende dag i den første måned, da jeg var ved bredden af den store flod, Tigris,
5 løftede jeg øjnene og så en mand iført en linneddragt, med et bælte af Ufaz-guld om lænden.
6 Hans legeme var som krysolit, hans ansigt strålede som lynet, hans øjne som flammende fakler, og hans arme og hans fødder var som blank kobber. Når han talte, lød det som en folkeskare.
7 Kun jeg, Daniel, så synet; mændene, der var sammen med mig, så det ikke, for en stor rædsel var faldet over dem, og de var flygtet og havde skjult sig.
8 Jeg blev alene tilbage, og da jeg så dette vældige syn, forlod al kraft mig; jeg blev ligbleg og havde ikke flere kræfter.

[Responsory2]
R. An Angel stood at the Altar of the temple, having a golden censer in his hand and there was given unto him much incense;
* And the smoke of the incense ascended up before the Lord, out of the Angel's hand. (Alleluia.)
V. Before the Angels will I sing praise unto thee; I will worship toward thy holy temple, and praise thy Name, O Lord.
R. And the smoke of the incense ascended up before the Lord, out of the Angel's hand. (Alleluia.)

[Lectio3]
!Dan 10:9-14
9 Så hørte jeg ham tale, mens jeg lå i dyb søvn med ansigtet mod jorden.
10 And behold a hand touched me, and lifted me up upon my knees, and upon the joints of my hands.
11 And he said to me: Daniel, thou man of desires, understand the words that I speak to thee, and stand upright: for I am sent now to thee. And when he had said this word to me, I stood trembling.
12 And he said to me: Fear not, Daniel: for from the first day that thou didst set thy heart to understand, to afflict thyself in the sight of thy God, thy words have been heard: and I am come for thy words.
13 But the prince of the kingdom of the Persians resisted me one and twenty days: and behold Michael, one of the chief princes, came to help me, and I remained there by the king of the Persians.
14 But I am come to teach thee what things shall befall thy people in the latter days, for as yet the vision is for days.

[Responsory3]
R. Before the Angels will I sing praise unto thee, and will worship toward thy holy temple
* And I will praise thy Name, O Lord. (Alleluia.)
V. For thy loving kindness, and for thy truth; for Thou hast glorified thine holy Name on us.
R. And I will praise thy Name, O Lord. (Alleluia.)
&Gloria
R. And I will praise thy Name, O Lord. (Alleluia.)

[Lectio4]
That the blessed Archangel Michael hath oftentimes been seen of men is attested on the authority of the Holy Bible, and also by the ancient traditions of the Saints. For this reason such visions are held in remembrance in many places. As of old time did the Synagogue of the Jews, so now doth the Church of God venerate Michael as her watcher and defender. But during the papacy of Gelasius I. the summit of Mount Gargano in Apulia, at whose foot lieth the town of Siponto, was the scene of an extraordinary appearance of this same Archangel Michael.

[Responsory4]
R. This is Michael, who to battle leads the armies of the skies
* Whosoever on him calleth blessed within his wardship lies. His a prayer whose voice availing aids from earth toward heaven to rise. (Alleluia.)
V. The Archangel Michael is the Vice-Roy of Paradise, and the Angels that are the dwellers therein, do hold him in worship.
R. Whosoever on him calleth blessed within his wardship lies. His a prayer whose voice availing aids from earth toward heaven to rise. (Alleluia.)

[Lectio5]
And it came to pass on this wise. A certain man had a bull grazing with the flock upon Mount Gargano, and it strayed. And when they had sought it for a long while they found it jammed in the mouth of a cavern. Then one that stood there shot an arrow at it to slay it, but the arrow turned round and came back against him that had shot it. They therefore that saw it, and all those that heard it, were sore afraid because of that which had come to pass, so that no man dared any more to draw near to the cavern. But when they had sought counsel of the Bishop of Siponto, he answered, that it behoved to seek the interpretation from God, and proclaimed three days of fasting and prayer.

[Responsory5]
R. Where Angels lead the spirits of the blessed dead the glad procession moves with Michael at its head
* To lead them into the garden of Eden. (Alleluia.)
V. Lord, send thy Holy Spirit from heaven the Spirit of wisdom and understanding.
R. To lead them into the garden of Eden. (Alleluia.)

[Lectio6]
After three days the Archangel Michael gave warning to the Bishop that that place was under his protection, and that he had thus pointed out by a sign that he wished that worship should be offered to God there, with remembrance of himself and of the Angels. Then the Bishop and the citizens made haste and came to the cavern and when they found that the form thereof was somewhat after the fashion of a Church, they began to perform the public worship of God therein which sanctuary hath been glorified with many miracles. It was not long after these things that Pope Boniface IV. hallowed the Church of St. Michael on Hadrian's Mole at Rome, on the 29th day of September, on the which day the Church also holdeth in remembrance All Angels. But this present day is hallowed in remembrance of the manifestation of the Archangel Michael.

[Responsory6]
R. At that time shall Michael stand up, which standeth for your children.
* And there shall be a time, such as never was since there was a nation even to that same time. (Alleluia.)
V. At that time thy people shall be delivered, every one that shall be found written in the Book of Life.
R. And there shall be a time, such as never was since there was a nation even to that same time. (Alleluia.)
&Gloria
R. And there shall be a time, such as never was since there was a nation even to that same time. (Alleluia.)

[Lectio94]
That the blessed Archangel Michael hath oftentimes been seen of men is attested on the authority of the Holy Bible, and also by the ancient traditions of the Saints. For this reason such visions are held in remembrance in many places. As of old time did the Synagogue of the Jews, so now doth the Church of God venerate Michael as her watcher and defender. But during the Popedom of Gelasius I, the summit of Mount Gargano in Apulia, at whose foot lieth the town of Siponto, was the scene of an extraordinary appearance of this same Archangel Michael. It was not long after these things that Pope Boniface IV hallowed the Church of St. Michael on Hadrian's Mole at Rome, on the 29th day of September, on the which day the Church also holdeth in remembrance All Angels. But this present day is hallowed in remembrance of the manifestation of the Archangel Michael.
&teDeum

[Lectio7]
From the Holy Gospel according to Matthew
!Matt 18:1-10
At that time came the disciples unto Jesus, saying: Who is the greatest in the kingdom of heaven? And so on.
_
Homily by St. Hilary, Bishop of Poitiers.
!Com. on Matth. xviii.
Unless ye become as little children,« saith the Lord, »ye shall not enter into the kingdom of heaven,« that is, unless by the uprooting of bodily and mental depravity, we bring our souls to the innocency of childhood. But He giveth the name of children to all such as believe by the hearing of faith. Children follow their father, love their mother, know not how to wish evil to their neighbours, are not careful for earthly riches they insult not, they hate not, they lie not, they believe what they are told, and take for truth what they hear. Us then it behoveth to return to the simpleness of little children, for when we are well rooted therein, we shall so far bear about in ourselves an image of the sublime simpleness of the Lord Jesus.

[Responsory7]
R. Be not ye afraid before the Gentiles, but in your hearts, worship ye the Lord, and fear Him
* For His Angel is with you. (Alleluia.)
V. An Angel stood at the Altar of the Temple, having a golden censer in his hand.
R. For His Angel is with you. (Alleluia.)

[Lectio8]
Woe unto the world because of offences. The lowliness of the Passion is an offence unto the world. Such is the state of stupidity to which man's ignorance hath reduced itself, that it turneth away from the Lord of Eternal Glory, because of the unsightliness of the Cross. And what is so certain to bring woe unto the world as to turn away from Christ. And therefore He saith: »It must needs be that offences come,« because His fulfilling the lowliness of the Passion was the predestined mean whereby He was to give us eternal life.

[Responsory8]
R. The Archangel Michael came to help God's people.
* He arose to succour the spirits of the righteous. (Alleluia.)
V. An Angel stood at the Altar of the Temple, having a golden censer in his hand.
R. He arose to succour the spirits of the righteous. (Alleluia.)
&Gloria
R. He arose to succour the spirits of the righteous. (Alleluia.)

[Capitulum Laudes]
!Aab 1:1-2
v. Jesu Kristi åbenbaring, som Gud gav ham for at vise sine tjenere, hvad der snart skal ske, og som han kundgjorde og sendte med sin engel til sin tjener Johannes, der hermed bevidner Guds ord og Jesu Kristi vidnesbyrd, alt det, han har set.
$Deo gratias

[Hymnus Laudes]
v. Christ, of the angels praise and adoration,
Father and Saviour thou, of every nation,
Graciously grant us all to gain a station,
Where thou art reigning.
_
Angel all peaceful, to our dwellings send us,
Michael, from heaven coming to befriend us,
Breathing serenest peace may he attend us,
Grim war dispelling.
_
Angel of strength, who triumphed, tumults quelling,
Gabriel send us, ancient foes expelling,
Oft in these temples may he make his dwelling,
Dear unto heaven.
_
Angel physician, health on man bestowing,
Raphael send us from the skies all glowing,
All sickness curing, wisest counsel showing
In doubt and danger.
_
May the fair Mother of the Light be o'er us,
Virgin of peace, with all the angel chorus,
And may the heavenly army go before us,
Guiding and guarding.
_
O may the Godhead, endless bliss possessing,
Father, Son, Spirit, grant to us this blessing;
All his creation joins his praise confessing,
Now and forever.
Amen.

[Ant 2]
There was silence * in heaven while as the dragon made war, and Michael fought against him, and prevailed over him. Alleluia.

[Lectio Prima]
!Rev 12:7-8
The was a great war in heaven Michael and his angels fought against the dragon and the dragon fought, and his angels prevailed not, neither was their place found anymore in heaven.

[Responsory Tertia]
R.br. En engel stod * ved templets alter.
R. En engel stod * ved templets alter.
V. Med et gyldent roegelseskar i haanden.
R. Ved templets alter.
&Gloria
R. En engel stod * ved templets alter.
_
V. Roegelsens duft steg op for Herrens ansigt.
R. Fra englens hånd.

[Capitulum Sexta]
!Rev 5:11-12
v. I heard the voice of many Angels round about the throne, and the living creatures and the elders and the number of them was thousands of thousands, saying with a loud voice: Salvation unto our God.
$Deo gratias

[Responsory Sexta]
R.br. Roegelsens duft * steg op for Herrens ansigt.
R. Roegelsens duft * steg op for Herrens ansigt.
V. Fra englens hånd.
R. Steg op for Herrens ansigt.
&Gloria
R. Roegelsens duft * steg op for Herrens ansigt.
_
V. I engles paahoer lovsynger jeg dig, min Gud.
R. Jeg kaster mig ned for dit hellige tempel og priser dit navn.

[Responsory Nona]
R.br. I engles paahoer * lovsynger jeg dig, min Gud.
R. I engles paahoer * lovsynger jeg dig, min Gud.
V. Jeg kaster mig ned for dit hellige tempel og priser dit navn.
R. Lovsynger jeg dig, min Gud.
&Gloria
R. I engles paahoer * lovsynger jeg dig, min Gud.
_
V. Pris Gud.
R. Alle I hans engle.
