On the morrow we keep the feast of the holy Archangel Gabriel, who announced to the Blessed Virgin Mary the mystery of the Incarnation of the Lord. 
At Jerusalem, holy Confessor Cyril, Bishop of that see, and Doctor of the Church, who suffered many things from the Arians for the faith's sake. He was several times driven from the see, but at length fell asleep in peace, [in the year 386,] illustrious for the glory of holiness. The (Ecumenical Council [of Constantinople,] in writing to Pope Damasus, gave a noble witness to the purity of his faith. We keep his feast upon the 22nd day of this present month of March. 
Upon the same 18th day of March, were born into the better life  
_
At Caesarea, in Palestine, the blessed martyr Alexander, Bishop [of Jerusalem.] He came to Jerusalem from his own city, in Cappadocia, whereof he was Bishop, in order to visit the holy places. Narcissus, who was already very old, was then ruling the Church of Jerusalem, and Alexander by the revelation of God received the government thereof, afterward, and when he himself was in the venerable glory of grey hairs he was brought to Qesarea in the persecution under the Emperor Decius, and was put in prison, and finished his testimony confessing Christ. 
At Augsburg, the holy martyrs Narcissus, Bishop of Augsburg, and the Deacon Felix. Narcissus was the first who preached the gospel in Rhaetia he afterwards went into Spain, and after he had brought many to believe in Christ at Girona he there received the palm of martyrdom, along with the Deacon Felix, in the persecution under the Emperor Diocletian. 
At Nicomedia, the ten thousand holy martyrs who were slain with the sword for confessing Christ. 
Also the holy martyrs Trophimus and Eucarpius, [fourth century.] 
In England, holy Edward II., King of the English, who was murdered through a plot of his stepmother, and hath been famous for many miracles, [962-978.] 
At Lucca, in Tuscany, holy Finnan, Bishop of that see, [in the sixth century,] famous for the power of working miracles, but whose principal feast is kept upon the 18th day of November, which is that of the translation of his body. 
At Mantua, the holy Confessor Anselm, Bishop of the see, [in the year 1086.] 
