On the morrow we keep the feast of
_
 holy Lawrence Giustiniani, first Patriarch of Venice, who adorned by graces and by the glory of miracles that Episcopal see which, upon the 5th day of September, he was compelled against his own will to occupy his birth into the better life is mentioned upon the 8th day of January. 
Upon the same 5th day of September, were born into the better life  At Rome, in the suburb, the blessed martyr Victorinus, Bishop of Amiternum, (now called after him San Vittorino.) He was famous for holiness and miracles, and was chosen to the see of that city by the voice of all the people thereof. Afterwards, under Nerva - Trajan, he was sent, along with other servants of God, to Cutilia, where there is a pool of stinking sulphurous waters, and where the judge Aurelian ordered him to be hung up with his head downwards this torment he suffered for the space of three days, for Christ's name's sake, and then departed in triumph, gloriously crowned to be ever with the Lord. The Christians carried off his hody, and buried it honourably at Amiternum. 
At Porto, (in the second century,) the holy martyr Herculan. 
At Capua, the holy martyrs Quintius, Arcontius, and Donatus. 
Upon the same day holy Romulus, Praefect of the Palace to the Emperor Trajan he denounced the cruelty of that Emperor against the Christians, and for that cause was first beaten with rods and then beheaded. 
At Melitina, in Armenia, the holy soldiers Eudoxius, Zeno, Macarius, and their Companions, one thousand one hundred and four in number, who in the persecution under the Emperor Diocletian renounced their military service, and were massacred for confessing Christ. 
At Constantinople, the holy martyrs Urban, Theodore, Menedem, and their Companions, seventy-seven in number, of the ecclesiastical state, who under the Emperor Valens, for the Catholic faith's sake, were put on board a ship and burnt at sea. 
At the monastery of Sithiii, in the country of Therouanne, (in the eighth century,) the holy Abbat Bertin. 
At Toledo, the holy Virgin Obdulia. 
