On the morrow we keep the feast  
of the holy martyrs Cornelius, Pope of Rome, and Cyprian, Bishop of Carthage, of whose birth into the better life mention hath been made upon the 14th day of this present month of September. 
Upon the same 16th day of September, were born into the better life 
_
At Chalcedon, the holy Virgin and martyr Euphemia. Under the Emperor Diocletian and the Proconsul Priscus, she overcame for Christ's sake torture, imprisonment, stripes, wheels, fire, stones, beasts, rods, sharp saws, and hot metal. When she was again cast to the beasts in the theatre, she prayed the Lord to take her spirit to Himself, and then one of them bit her sacred body, while the rest licked her feet, and she resigned her soul without spot to God. 
At Rome, the holy martyrs Lucy, a noble matron, and Geminian, whom the Emperor Diocletian, after they had suffered grievously and long been tormented, and had thus gained a noble victory by martyrdom, commanded to be slain with the sword. 
Likewise at Rome, upon the Flaminian Way, the holy martyrs Abundius the Priest and Abundantius the Deacon, whom the Emperor Diocletian commanded to be beheaded at the tenth milestone from the city, along with the eminent Marcian, and John, the son of Marcian, whom they had raised from the dead. 
At Heraclea, in Thrace, the holy martyr Sebastiana, who was led to believe in Christ by the blessed Apostle Paul. Under the Emperor Domitian and the President Sergius she was diversely tried and at last slain with the sword. 
At Cordova, (in the ninth century,) the holy martyrs Rogellus and ServusDei, who had their hands and feet cut off and were at last beheaded. 
In Scotland, the holy Confessor Ninian, Bishop (of Galloway, whose feast we keep upon the 25th day of this present month of September.) 
In England, (in the tenth century,) the holy Virgin Edith, daughter of Edgar, King of the English, who was dedicated to God from a child in the Monastery (of the Order of St Benedict, at Wilton,) and knew not the world, rather then forsook it. 
