Upon the morrow we keep the feast 
_
of the holy Confessor Thomas of Villanueva, Bishop of Valencia, in Spain, of whom mention is made upon the 8th day of this present month of September. 
Upon the same 22nd day of September, were born into the better life  At Sitten, in Switzerland, the holy martyrs of the Theban Legion  Maurice, Exuperius, Candidus, Victor, Innocent, Vitalis, and their Comrades, who were massacred for Christ's sake under the Emperor Maximian, and have enlightened the whole world by the glory of their passion. 
At Rome, under the Emperors Valerian and Gallienus, the holy Virgins Digna and Emerita, both martyrs. Their reliques are kept in the Church of St Marcellus. 
At Chatres, the holy martyr Jonah, a Priest, who came into Gaul along with holy Denys, and was, by command of the Prefect Julian, flogged and beheaded. 
At Ratisbon, in Bavaria, (in the seventh century,) the holy martyr Emmeram, the Bishop who, in order that he might deliver others, patiently submitted to a most cruel death for Christ's sake. 
At Antinoopolis, in Egypt, the holy martyrs Irais, a Virgin of Alexandria, and her Companions. She was gone out to draw water from a well near by when she saw a ship full of confessors of Christ, and thereupon she forthwith left her water-pot and joined them, and was brought along with them into the city, where she first of all, after many torments, was beheaded, and then all the rest, of whom some were Priests, Deacons, or Virgins, were put to the same death. 
At Meaux, blessed Sanctinus, a disciple of holy Denys the Areopagite, who consecrated him Bishop of that city, where he was the first to preach the Gospel. 
In the country of Coutances, (in the sixth century,) the holy Confessor Lauto, Bishop (of that see.) In Poitou, (in the fifth century,) the holy Priest Florence. 
In the country of Bourges, (in the first century,) the holy Confessor Silvan. 
At Laon, (in the seventh century,)  the holy widow Salaberga, Abbess (of  the Monastery of St John the Baptist)  