[Rank]
Feria V infra Hebdomadam II post Epiphaniam;;Feria;;1

[Rule]
Oratio Dominica

[Lectio1]
Lesson from the second letter of St Paul the Apostle to the Corinthians
!2 Cor 10:1-3
1 Now I Paul myself beseech you, by the mildness and modesty of Christ, who in presence indeed am lowly among you, but being absent, am bold toward you.
2 But I beseech you, that I may not be bold when I am present, with that confidence wherewith I am thought to be bold, against some, who reckon us as if we walked according to the flesh.
3 For though we walk in the flesh, we do not war according to the flesh.

[Responsory1]
R. In thee, O God, do I put my trust; let me never be put to confusion, O Lord deliver me in thy righteousness,
* And cause me to escape.
V. Incline thine ear unto me, deliver me speedily.
R. And cause me to escape.

[Lectio2]
!2 Cor 10:4-7
4 For the weapons of our warfare are not carnal, but mighty to God unto the pulling down of fortifications, destroying counsels,
5 And every height that exhalteth itself against the knowledge of God, and bringing into captivity every understanding unto the obedience of Christ;
6 And having in readiness to revenge all disobedience, when your obedience shall be fulfilled.
7 See the things that are according to outward appearance. If any man trust to himself, that he is Christ's, let him think this again with himself, that as he is Christ's, so are we also.

[Responsory2]
R. Let my mouth be filled with thy praise, that I may sing of thy glory, all the day long of thy greatness. Cast me not off in the time of old age
* Forsake me not when my strength faileth.
V. My lips shall be fain when I sing unto thee.
R. Forsake me not when my strength faileth.

[Lectio3]
!2 Cor 10:8-12
8 For if also I should boast somewhat more of our power, which the Lord hath given us unto edification, and not for your destruction, I should not be ashamed.
9 But that I may not be thought as it were to terrify you by epistles,
10 (For his epistles indeed, say they, are weighty and strong; but his bodily presence is weak, and his speech contemptible,)
11 Let such a one think this, that such as we are in word by epistles, when absent, such also we will be indeed when present.
12 For we dare not match, or compare ourselves with some, that commend themselves; but we measure ourselves by ourselves, and compare ourselves with ourselves.

[Responsory3]
R. My lips shall be fain when I sing unto thee
* And my soul, which Thou, O Lord, hast redeemed.
V. My tongue shall also talk of thy righteousness, all the day long of thy praise.
R. And my soul, which Thou, O Lord, hast redeemed.
&Gloria
R. And my soul, which Thou, O Lord, hast redeemed.
