Upon the 28th day of April, were born into the better life
_
We keep the feast of the holy Confessor Paul of the Cross, founder of the congregation 
called that of the Cross and Passion of our Lord Jesus Christ, and of whom mention is made upon the 18th day of October, upon the which day, [in the year 1775,] he fell asleep in the Lord. 
At Ravenna, the holy martyr Vitalis, father of holy Gervase and Protase. He had removed the body of blessed Ursicinus and buried it with due respect for the which cause he was arrested by Paulinus the consular, and when they had racked him, they cast him into a deep pit and buried him alive under earth and stones, and with that testimony he passed away to be with Christ, [in the year 171.] 
At Milan, the holy martyr Valeria, wife of holy Vitalis. 
At Atino, holy Mark, who was ordained Bishop of that see by the blessed Apostle Peter, and was the first that preached the Gospel to the Equicoli, [inhabitants of the Campania round Rome.] He received the crown of martyrdom under the President Maximus, in the persecution under the Emperor Domitian. 
At Alexandria, the holy Virgin Theodora. She would not sacrifice to idols and was sent to a brothel; but one of the brethren, named Didymus, by the favour of God changed clothes with her, and so delivered her thence. Later on, in the persecution under the Emperor Diocletian, they were beheaded together under Eustratius the President, and so were crowned together. 
Upon the same day, the holy martyrs Aphrodisius, [first Bishop of Beziers,] Caralippus, Agapius, and Eusebius, [in the year 65.] 
In Hungary, under the Emperor Diocletian, the holy martyr Pollio. [He was a Reader in the church of Cibales, in the country of Valentinian. Cibales was between the rivers Save and Drave, and is now in ruins. St Pollio suffered on the same day, though at a distance of some years, as his Bishop Eusebius.] 
At Brusa, in Bithynia, the holy martyr Patrick, Bishop of [that see,] Acatius, Menander, and Polyaenus, [third century.] 
At Tarazona, in Spain, the holy Confessor Prudentius, Bishop [of that see, before the year 846.] 
At Pentina, in the Abruzzi, [in the seventh century,] holy Pamphilus, Bishop of Valva, famous for his charity to the poor and gift of miracles. He is buried at Sulmona. 
