[Rank]
In Nativitate S. Johannis Baptistae;;Duplex I classis cum Octava communi;;6.5;;

[Rank1960]
In Nativitate S. Johannis Baptistae;;Duplex I classis;;6;;

[Rule]
Proper;
9 lectiones
Psalmi Dominica
Antiphonas horas
Psalm5 Vespera=116

[Ant Vespera]
He shall go before Him * in the spirit and power of Elias, to make ready a people prepared for the Lord.
His name is John. * He shall drink neither wine nor strong drink, and many shall rejoice at his birth.
Elizabeth was barren and well stricken in years, * but from her womb was born John the Fore-runner of the Lord.
The child shall be great * in the sight of the Lord, for His hand is with him.
The child shall be called a Nazarite. * He shall drink neither wine nor strong drink, neither shall he eat any unclean thing, even from his mother's womb.

[Capitulum Vespera]
!Isa 49:1
v. Halljátok, szigetek, és figyeljetek, távoli népek! Az Úr hívott meg, mielõtt még születtem; anyám méhétõl fogva a nevemen szólított.
$Deo gratias

[Hymnus Vespera]
Hogy könnyûlt szívvel csoda tetteidnek
Zenghessék hírét szabadult szolgáid,
Oldd meg, Szent János, kötelét a bûntôl
Szennyes ajaknak.
_
Im, magas küldött jön alá Olympról,
Hirdetvén nagy hírt figyelô atyádnak,
Sorban elmondván neved és jövendô
Életed útját.
_
Ô kételkedvén a magas beszéden:
Fürge nyelvének felakadt folyása.
Úgy nyeré meg majd születô fiától
Hangja zenéjét.
_
Érzéd már a mély anyaméh sötétjén
Ágyasházában megülô királyod.
Fiú titkát szava két anyának
Hirdeti fennen.
_
Áldás, dícséret legyen az Atyának,
Egyszülöttének s vele Szentléleknek,
Háromságban- egy örök Istenünknek,
Minden idôben.
Ámen.

[Versum 1]
V. There was a man sent from God.
R. Whose name was John.

[Ant 1]
When Zacharias went * into the Temple of the Lord, the Angel Gabriel appeared unto him, standing on the right side of the altar of incense

[Oratio]
Isten, aki ezt a napot számunkra áldott Szent János születésével megszentelted: serkentsd fel népedet spirituális örömöddel, és irányíts minden hivõ leleket az örök megváltás útjára
$Per Dominum

[Invit]
A Ur az Elõfutára királya * jöjjetek imádjuk Ot

[Hymnus Matutinum]
Gyenge korban már, tömeget kerülvén,
Barlangok, puszták zugait szeretted:
Meg ne férkezné kisikolt igének
Szennye sem ajkad.
_
Tagjaid borzas teveszôr takarta,
Kétfogú berbécs övezett kötéllel,
Kortyot víz kínált, eledelt a sáska,
Erdei mézzel.
_
Szóval ígéré valamennyi látó
A kelendô Fényt: te megérted újjal
A szelíd Bárányt, ki a rossz világnak
Elveszi bûnét.
_
Nincs e bûnbenholt sivatag világon
Jánosnál szentebb anyaszült halandó;
Választott ô lôn, ki megöntse vízzel
Bûn lemosóját.
_
Áldás, dícséret legyen az Atyának,
Egyszülöttének s vele Szentléleknek,
Háromságban- egy örök Istenünknek,
Minden idôben.
Ámen.

[Ant Matutinum]
Before I formed thee in the belly I knew thee, * and before thou earnest forth out of the womb I sanctified thee;;1
The Lord said unto me Thou shalt go to all that I shall send thee; * fear not and whatsoever I command thee thou shalt speak;;2
Be not afraid of their faces * for I am with thee, saith the Lord;;3
V. There was a man sent from God
R. Whose name was John.
The Lord put forth His hand, and touched my mouth, * and the Lord ordained me a Prophet unto the nations;;4
Behold, I have put My words in thy mouth * see, I have this day set thee over the nations, and over the kingdoms;;5
The Lord hath called me from the womb * from the bowels of my mother hath He made mention of my name;;8
V. Among them that are born of women there hath not risen a greater
R. Than John the Baptist
The Lord hath made my mouth * like a sharp sword; in the shadow of His hand hath He hid me;;14
And now, saith the Lord That formed me from the womb * to be His servant I will also give thee for a light to the Gentiles, that thou mayest be My salvation unto the end of the earth;;20
Kings shall see, and princes shall arise, and worship the Lord thy God, Who hath chosen thee;;33
V. Elizabeth, the wife of Zacharias, was the mother of a mighty man
R. Even of John the Baptist, the Fore-runner of the Lord

[Lectio1]
Olvasmány Jeremiás próféta könyvébõl
!Jer 1:1-5
1 Jeremiásnak, Hilkija fiának a szavai, aki abból a papi családból származott, amely a Benjamin földjén levõ Anatotban lakott.
2 Az Úr Jozijának, Ámon fiának, Júda királyának napjaiban, uralkodásának 13. esztendejében intézte hozzá szózatait,
3 aztán Jojákimnak, Jozija fiának, Júda királyának napjaiban is, egészen addig, míg Cidkijának, Jozija fiának, Júda királyának 11. esztendeje el nem telt, amikor is fogságba vitték Jeruzsálemet, az ötödik hónapban.
4 Így szólt hozzám az Úr:
5 "Mielõtt megalkottalak anyád méhében, már ismertelek; mielõtt megszülettél volna, fölszenteltelek, és prófétául rendeltelek a nemzetek javára."

[Responsory1]
R. There was a man sent from God, whose name was John.
* The same came for a witness, to bear witness of the Light, to make ready a people prepared for the Lord.
V. John was in the wilderness, preaching the baptism of repentance.
R. The same came for a witness, to bear witness of the Light, to make ready a people prepared for the Lord.

[Lectio2]
!Jer 1:6-10
6 Erre azt mondtam: "Jaj, Uram Isten! Nézd, nem tudok én beszélni, hiszen még ifjú vagyok."
7 De az Úr így válaszolt: "Ne mondd azt, hogy ifjú vagyok, hanem menj el azokhoz, akikhez küldelek, és mondd el nekik mind, amit parancsolok.
8 Ne félj tõlük, mert veled vagyok, és megoltalmazlak - az Úr mondja ezt neked."
9 Akkor az Úr kinyújtotta kezét, megérintette ajkamat és így szólt hozzám:
10 "Nézd, ajkadra adom szavaimat, ma nemzetek és országok fölé állítalak, hogy gyomlálj és rombolj, pusztíts és szétszórj, építs és ültess."

[Responsory2]
R. Elizabeth, the wife of Zacharias, was the mother of a mighty man, even of John the Baptist, the Forerunner of the Lord,
* who made straight in the desert an highway for the Lord. 1
V. There was a man sent from God, whose name was John.
R. Who made straight in the desert an highway for the Lord.

[Lectio3]
!Jer 1:17-19
17 Azért hát övezd fel derekadat: kelj föl és mondd el nekik mind, amit parancsolok neked. Ne ijedj meg tõlük, különben én ijesztelek meg a szemük elõtt.
18 Én meg a mai napon erõs várossá teszlek; vasoszloppá és ércfallá az egész ország ellenében; Júda királyai és fõemberei ellen, papjai és egész népe ellen.
19 Harcolni fognak ugyan ellened, de nem gyõznek le, mert veled vagyok és megszabadítalak - mondja az Úr.

[Responsory3]
R. Before I formed thee in the belly I knew thee and before thou earnest forth out of the womb I sanctified thee
* And I ordained thee a Prophet unto the nations.
V. A man beloved of God and men, he was had in honour.
R. And I ordained thee a Prophet unto the nations.
&Gloria
R. And I ordained thee a Prophet unto the nations.

[Lectio4]
From the Sermons of St Austin, Bishop of Hippo.
!20th on the Saints.
Outside the most holy Birthday of the Lord, we find celebrated in the Gospel the birth of only one other, namely, that of the blessed Baptist, John. As regardeth all others among God's holy and chosen ones we know that that day is observed whereon, with their work finished, and the world conquered and finally trampled down, they were born from this into a better life, even one of everlasting blessedness. In others is honoured the crowning of the struggle on their last day of dying life, but in John is honoured the first day in him the very beginning is found hallowed. And the reason of this is, without doubt, because he was sent from God to bear witness to the coming of the Light, lest when It came It might take the darkness by surprise, and the darkness might not comprehend It. Now, John was a figure of the Old Testament, and showed in his own person a typical embodiment of the Law and therefore John heralded beforehand the coming of the Saviour, even as the Law was our schoolmaster to bring us to the grace of Christ. (Gal. iii. 24.)

[Responsory4]
R. The Angel of the Lord was sent down unto Zacharias, saying Thou shalt beget a son in thine old age
* and his name shall be called John the Baptist.
V. The child shall be great in the sight of the Lord for His hand is with him.
R. And his name shall be called John the Baptist.

[Lectio5]
But as touching this, that he prophesied while yet in the hidden depths of his mother's womb, and while himself lightless bore testimony to the truth, we are to understand it as a figure how that while himself wrapped round with the veil and carnal ordinances of the letter, he by the spirit preached unto the world a Redeemer, and testified that Jesus is our Lord even while for himself, working under the law, the birth of the new dispensation was still in the womb of the future, and not come to day. The Jews were estranged from the womb, that is from the Law, that womb heavy with the Christ That was to be they went astray from the belly, speaking lies, (Ps. lvii. 4) and therefore John came for a witness, to bear witness of the Light, that all men through him might believe. (John i. 7.)

[Responsory5]
R. This is the well-beloved Fore-runner, a burning and a shining light before the Lord.
* For even this is John, who made straight in the desert an highway for our God. This also is he which bare witness, saying Behold the Lamb of God And his light lightened the minds of men.
V. He shall go before Him in the spirit and power of Elias.
R. For even this is John, who made straight in the desert an highway for our God. This also is he which bare witness, saying Behold the Lamb of God And his light lightened the minds of men.

[Lectio6]
But as for this, that when John had heard in the prison the works of Christ, he sent two of his disciples (Matth. xi. 2) this is the Law sending to the Gospel. For John here was a figure of the Law, imprisoned in ignorance, lying in the dark, and in a hidden place, and he was fettered through Jewish misunderstanding~
within the bonds of the letter. But of him was it said, as is written in the Blessed Evangelist He was a burning and a shining light that is to say, that, when the whole world was wrapt in the night of ignorance, this Saint was kindled by the fire of the Holy Ghost, to show before men the light of salvation, and at the hour of the thickest darkness of sin, appeared like a bright morning star to herald the rising of that Sun so right gloriously radiant, the Son of righteousness, Christ our Lord. And this is why John said of himself: I am the voice of one crying in the wilderness, Make straight the way of the Lord. (John i. 15.)

[Responsory6]
R. They made signs to his father, how he would have him called and he asked for a writing-table, and wrote, saying
* His name is John.
V. The mouth of Zacharias was opened, and he prophesied, saying
R. His name is John.
&Gloria
R. His name is John.

[Lectio7]
Evangélium szent Lukács Evangélista kõnyvébõl
!Luke 1:57-69
Elérkezett Erzsébet szülésének ideje, és fiút szült. Amikor a szomszédok és rokonok meghallották, hogy milyen nagyra méltatta az Úr irgalmában, vele örültek. És így tovább
_
Homily by St Ambrose, Bishop of Milan.
!Bk. ii. Comm. on Luke i.
Elizabeth's full time came that she should be delivered, and she brought forth a~
son. And her neighbours rejoiced with her. The birth of a Saint is a joy for many, for it is a good to all. Righteousness is an help to all, and therefore when a righteous man is born it is an heralding of his life, which is still to come, that the helpful excellency of his future should be hailed by the, as it were, prophetic joy of the neighbours. It is well that we should be told concerning the prophet, while he was yet in the womb, that we may know how that Mary was there but we hear nothing of his childhood, becausewe know that it was safe and strong through the nearness of the Lord, Himself then in that womb which was free from the sorrows of pregnancy. And therefore we read in the Gospel nothing touching him save his coming, the annunciation thereof to his father, the leap which he gave in the womb, and his crying in the wilderness.

[Responsory7]
R. The Fore-runner of the Lord cometh, to whom He Himself bare witness, saying
* Among them that are born of women there hath not risen a greater than John the Baptist.
V. A Prophet? Yea, and much more than a Prophet. This is he of whom the Saviour saith
R. Among them that are born of women there hath not risen a greater than John the Baptist.

[Lectio8]
It was not for him to feel childishness, who beyond all use of nature or of his age, when as yet he lay in his mother's womb, leapt at once unto the measure of~
the stature of the fulness of Christ. (Eph. iv. 13.) It is strange how that the Holy Evangelist hath judged meet to tell us that they thought to call the child Zacharias, after the name of his father, that thou mayest notice that the mother would have none of the names whereby their kindred were called, but only that name which the Holy Ghost had dictated, and which the Angel had told before unto Zacharias. The dumb man had certainly not been able to tell his wife by what name to call the child, and Elizabeth must needs have learnt by revelation what she could not have heard from her husband.

[Responsory8]
R. The Angel Gabriel appeared unto Zacharias, and said thy wife Elizabeth shall bear thee a son, and thou shalt call his name John
* And many shall rejoice at his birth.
V. For he shall be great in the sight of the Lord, and shall drink neither wine nor strong drink.
R. And many shall rejoice at his birth.
&Gloria
R. And many shall rejoice at his birth.

[Lectio9]
His name is John that is, it is not for us to choose a name now for him to whom God hath given a name already. He hath a name, which we know, but it is not one of our choosing. To receive a name from God is one of the honours of the Saints. Thus was it that Jacob's name was no more called Jacob but Israel, because he saw God face to face. (Gen. xxxii. 28.) Thus was it that our Lord Jesus was named before He was born, with a name not given by an Angel, but by the Father. Thou seest that Angels tell that which they have been bidden to tell, not matters of their own choosing. Nor oughtest thou to wonder that Elizabeth named a name which she had not beard, since it had been revealed to her by the same Holy Ghost Who had commanded the Angel to tell it.
&teDeum

[Ant Laudes]
Elizabeth, the wife of Zacharias, * was the mother of a mighty man, even of John the Baptist, the Fore-runner of the Lord.
They made signs to his father * how he would have him called and he asked for a writingtable, and wrote, saying His name is John.
Thou shalt call his name John * and many shall rejoice at his birth.
Among them that are born of women * there hath not risen a greater than John the Baptist.
Thou, child, shalt be called the Prophet of the Highest; * for thou shalt go before the face of the Lord, to prepare His ways.

[Capitulum Laudes]
!Isa 49:1
v. Halljátok, szigetek, és figyeljetek, távoli népek! Az Úr hívott meg, mielõtt még születtem; anyám méhétõl fogva a nevemen szólított.
$Deo gratias

[Hymnus Laudes]
Ó nagyon boldog, magasult erényû,
Foltot kin nem lát a havas szemérem,
Páratlan mártír, sivatag lakója,
Látnokok atyja!
_
Van kit harmincas fonatú fûzérrel,
Mást kétszer többel koronáz erénye:
Százszor hajt hármas koronád tenéked
Drága gyümölcsöt.
_
Szívünkrôl, ó szent, magas érdemeddel
Hengerítsd el most a kövek keményét,
Utat egyengess, igazítsd elôre
A kanyar ösvényt.
_
Hogy világszerzô kegyes Üdvözítônk
Kedvvel nézzen ránk, bûneink kiégvén,
És méltóztassék kegyesen beszállni
Tiszta szívünkbe.
_
Téged a mennyég dala ünnepeljen,
Hármas-egy Isten, minekünk bocsáss meg,
Megváltott néped könyörög tehozzád:
Légy kegyelemmel!
Ámen.

[Versum 2]
V. The child shall be great in the sight of the Lord
R. For His hand is with him.

[Ant 2]
And the mouth of Zacharias was opened, * and he prophesied, saying: Blessed be the Lord God of Israel.

[Lectio Prima]
!Isa 49:7
v. Ezt mondja az Úr, Izrael Megváltója és Szentje, annak, akinek életét megvetették, akit a nemzetek megutáltak, a kényurak szolgájának: Királyok állnak majd fel, ha meglátnak, és fejedelmek borulnak le, az Úr miatt, aki hûséges, Izrael Szentje miatt, aki kiválasztott.

[Capitulum Tertia]
!Isa 49:1
v. Halljátok, szigetek, és figyeljetek, távoli népek! Az Úr hívott meg, mielõtt még születtem; anyám méhétõl fogva a nevemen szólított.
$Deo gratias

[Responsory Tertia]
R.br. There was a man sent from God.
R. There was a man sent from God.
V. Whose name was John.
R. Sent from God.
&Gloria
R. There was a man sent from God.
_
V. Among them that are born of women there hath not risen a greater
R. Than John the Baptist.

[Capitulum Sexta]
!Isa 49:5-6
v. Becses vagyok az Úr szemében, és Istenem az erõm. És most ezt mondja az Úr, aki már anyám méhétõl fogva szolgájává tett, hogy visszavezessem hozzá Jákobot, és Izraelt köréje gyûjtsem: Kevés az, hogy szolgám légy, s fölemeld Jákob törzseit, és visszatérítsd Izrael maradékát. Nézd, a nemzetek világosságává tettelek, hogy üdvösségem eljusson a föld határáig.
$Deo gratias

[Responsory Sexta]
R.br. Among them that are born of women * there hath not risen a greater
R. Among them that are born of women * there hath not risen a greater
V. Than John the Baptist.
R. There hath not risen a greater.
&Gloria
R. Among them that are born of women there hath not risen a greater.
_
V. Elizabeth, the wife of Zacharias, was the mother of a mighty man
R. Even of John the Baptist, the Fore-runner of the Lord.

[Capitulum Nona]
!Isa 49:7
v. Ezt mondja az Úr, Izrael Megváltója és Szentje, annak, akinek életét megvetették, akit a nemzetek megutáltak, a kényurak szolgájának: Királyok állnak majd fel, ha meglátnak, és fejedelmek borulnak le, az Úr miatt, aki hûséges, Izrael Szentje miatt, aki kiválasztott.
$Deo gratias

[Responsory Nona]
R.br. Elizabeth, the wife of Zacharias, was the mother of a mighty man.
R. Elizabeth, the wife of Zacharias, was the mother of a mighty man.
V. Even of John the Baptist, the Fore-runner of the Lord.
R. A mighty man.
&Gloria
R. Elizabeth, the wife of Zacharias, was the mother of a mighty man.
_
V. The child shall be great in the sight of the Lord.
R. For His hand is with him.

[Ant 3]
The child, that unto us is born, * is much more than a Prophet, for this is he of whom the Saviour saith Among them that are born of women there hath not risen a greater than John the Baptist.

[Octava 1]
!Commemoratio Octavae Nativiti Johanni Baptistae
Ant. When Zacharias went * into the Temple of the Lord, the Angel Gabriel appeared unto him, standing on the right side of the altar of incense
_
V. There was a man sent from God.
R. Whose name was John.
_
!Könyörgés
Isten, aki ezt a napot számunkra áldott Szent János születésével megszentelted: serkentsd fel népedet spirituális örömöddel, és irányíts minden hivõ leleket az örök megváltás útjára
$Per Dominum

[Octava 2]
!Commemoratio Octavae Nativiti Johanni Baptistae
Ant. And the mouth of Zacharias was opened, * and he prophesied, saying: Blessed be the Lord God of Israel.
_
V. The child shall be great in the sight of the Lord.
R. For His hand is with him.
_
!Könyörgés
Isten, aki ezt a napot számunkra áldott Szent János születésével megszentelted: serkentsd fel népedet spirituális örömöddel, és irányíts minden hivõ leleket az örök megváltás útjára
$Per Dominum
