[Lectio1]
Lesson from the second book of Machabees
!2 Mac 10:1-5
1 But Machabeus, and they that were with him, by the protection of the Lord, recovered the temple and the city again. 
2 But he threw down the altars, which the heathens had set up in the streets, as also the temples of the idols. 
3 And having purified the temple, they made another altar: and taking fire out of the fiery stones, they offered sacrifices after two years, and set forth incense, and lamps, and the loaves of proposition. 
4 And when they had done these things, they besought the Lord, lying prostrate on the ground, that they might no more fall into such evils; but if they should at any time sin, that they might be chastised by him more gently, and not be delivered up to barbarians and blasphemous men. 
5 Now upon the same day that the temple had been polluted by the strangers, on the very same day it was cleansed again, to wit, on the five and twentieth day of the month of Casleu. 

[Lectio2]
!2 Mac 10:24-27
24 But Timotheus who before had been overcome by the Jews, having called together a multitude of foreign troops, and assembled horsemen out of Asia, came as though he would take Judea by force of arms. 
25 But Machabeus and they that were with him, when he drew near, prayed to the Lord, sprinkling earth upon their heads and girding their loins with haircloth,
26 And lying prostrate at the foot of the altar, besought him to be merciful to them, and to be an enemy to their enemies, and an adversary to their adversaries, as the law saith. 
27 And so after prayer taking their arms, they went forth further from the city, and when they were come very near the enemies they rested. 

[Lectio3]
!2 Mac 10:28-32
28 But as soon as the sun was risen both sides joined battle: the one part having with their valour the Lord for a surety of victory and success: but the other side making their rage their leader in battle. 
29 But when they were in the heat of the engagement there appeared to the enemies from heaven five men upon horses, comely with golden bridles, conducting the Jews: 30 Two of whom took Machabeus between them, and covered him on every side with their arms, and kept him safe: but cast darts and fireballs against the enemy, so that they fell down, being both confounded with blindness, and filled with trouble.
31 And there were slain twenty thousand five hundred, and six hundred horsemen. 
32 But Timotheus fled into Gazara a strong hold, where Chereas was governor