[Lectio1Tridentina]
Lesson from the second book of Machabees
!2 Mac 7:24-27
24 Now Antiochus, thinking himself despised, and withal despising the voice of the upbraider, when the youngest was yet alive, did not only exhort him by words, but also assured him with an oath, that he would make him a rich and a happy man, and, if he would turn from the laws of his fathers, would take him for a friend, and furnish him with things necessary.
25 But when the young man was not moved with these things, the king called the mother, and counselled her to deal with the young man to save his life.
26 And when he had exhorted her with many words, she promised that she would counsel her son.
27 So bending herself towards him, mocking the cruel tyrant, she said her own language: My son, have pity upon me, that bore thee nine months my womb, and gave thee suck three years, and nourished thee, and brought thee up unto this age.

[Lectio1]
@Tempora/105-1:Lectio1Tridentina
(sed rubrica tridentina)
@Tempora/105-2:Lectio1Tridentina

[Lectio2Tridentina]
!2 Mac 7:28-33
28 I beseech thee, my son, look upon heaven and earth, and all that is in them: and consider that God made them out of nothing, and mankind also:
29 So thou shalt not fear this tormentor, but being made a worthy partner with thy brethren, receive death, that in that mercy I may receive thee again with thy brethren.
30 While she was yet speaking these words, the young man said: For whom do you stay I will not obey the commandment of the king, but the commandment of the law, which was given us by Moses.
31 But thou that hast been the author of all mischief against the Hebrews, shalt not escape the hand of God.
32 For we suffer thus for our sins.
33 And though the Lord our God is angry with us a little while for our chastisement and correction: yet he will be reconciled again to his servants.

[Lectio2]
@Tempora/105-1:Lectio2Tridentina
(sed rubrica tridentina)
@Tempora/105-2:Lectio2Tridentina

[Lectio3Tridentina]
!2 Mac 7:34-41
34 But thou, O wicked and of all men most flagitious, be not lifted up without cause with vain hopes, whilst thou art raging against his servants.
35 For thou hast not yet escaped the judgment of the almighty God, who beholdeth all things.
36 For my brethren, having now undergone a short pain, are under the covenant of eternal life: but thou by the judgment of God shalt receive just punishment for thy pride.
37 But I, like my brethren, offer up my life and my body for the laws of our fathers: calling upon God to be speedily merciful to our nation, and that thou by torments and stripes mayst confess that he alone is God.
38 But in me and in my brethren the wrath of the Almighty, which hath justly been brought upon all our nation, shall cease.
39 Then the king being incensed with anger, raged against him more cruelly than all the rest, taking it grievously that he was mocked.
40 So this man also died undefiled, wholly trusting in the Lord.
41 And last of all after the sons the mother also was consumed.

[Lectio3]
@Tempora/105-1:Lectio3Tridentina
(sed rubrica tridentina)
@Tempora/105-2:Lectio3Tridentina