[Lectio1]
Lesson from the book of Ezekiel
!Ezek 2:2-5
2 And the spirit entered into me after that he spoke to me, and he set me upon my feet: and I heard him speaking to me,
3 And saying: Son of man, I send thee to the children of Israel, to a rebellious people, that hath revolted from me, they, and their fathers, have transgressed my covenant even unto this day.
4 And they to whom I send thee are children of a hard face, and of an obstinate heart: and thou shalt say to them: Thus saith the Lord God:
5 If so be they at least will hear, and if so be they will forbear, for they are a provoking house: and they shall know that there hath been a prophet in the midst of them.

[Responsory1]
R. He hath redeemed His people, and ransomed them therefore they shall come and sing in the height of Zion, and shall rejoice in the goodness of the Lord, for wheat, and for wine, and for oil
* And they shall hunger no more.
V. And their soul shall be as a watered garden.
R. And they shall hunger no more.

[Lectio2]
!Ezek 2:6-7
6 And thou, O son of man, fear not, neither be thou afraid of their words: for thou art among unbelievers and destroyers, and thou dwellest with scorpions. Fear not their words, neither be thou dismayed at their looks: for they are a provoking house.
7 And thou shalt speak my words to them, if perhaps they will hear, and forbear: for they provoke me to anger.

[Responsory2]
R. I am straitened on every side, and know not what to choose.
* It is better for me to fall into the hands of men, than to sin against the law of my God.
V. For if I do this thing, it is death unto me and if I do it not, I cannot escape your hands.
R. It is better for me to fall into the hands of men, than to sin against the law of my God.

[Lectio3]
!Ezek 2:8-9
8 But thou, O son of man, hear all that I say to thee: and do not thou provoke me, as that house provoketh me: open thy mouth, and eat what I give thee.
9 And I looked, and behold, a hand was sent to me, wherein was a book rolled up: and he spread it before me, and it was written within and without: and there were written in it lamentations, and canticles, and woe.

[Responsory3]
R. The Lord hath sent His angel, and hath shut the lions' mouths, that
* They have not hurt me forasmuch as before Him innocency was found in me.
V. God hath sent forth His mercy and His truth, (and delivered) my soul from among the lions' whelps.
R. They have not hurt me forasmuch as before Him innocency was found in me.
&Gloria
R. They have not hurt me forasmuch as before Him innocency was found in me.
