[Rank]
Dominica I Adventus;;Semiduplex;;6

[Rule]
9 lectiones
Antiphonas horas

[Ant Laudes]
In that day * the mountains shall drop down sweet wine, and the hills shall flow with milk and honey. Alleluia.
Sing, O daughter of Zion, * and rejoice with all the heart, O daughter of Jerusalem. Alleluia.
Behold, the Lord shall come, * and all His saints with Him; and it shall come to pass in that day that the light shall be great. Alleluia.
Lo, every one that thirsteth * come ye to the waters: seek ye the Lord while He may be found. Alleluia.
Behold, a great Prophet * shall arise, and He shall build up a new Jerusalem. Alleluia.

[Capitulum Vespera]
!Rom 13:11
v. And that knowing the season; that it is now the hour for us to rise from sleep. For now our salvation is nearer than when we believed.
$Deo gratias.

[Ant 1]
Behold, the name of the Lord * cometh from far, and the whole earth is full of His glory.

[Oratio]
Stir up, O Lord, we pray thee, thy strength, and come among us, that whereas through our sins and wickedness we do justly apprehend thy wrathful judgments hanging over us, thy bountiful grace and mercy may speedily help and deliver us;
$Qui vivis

[Lectio1]
Lesson from the book of Isaias
!Isa 1:1-3
1 The vision of Isaias the son of Amos, which he saw concerning Juda and Jerusalem in the days of Ozias, Joathan, Achaz, and Ezechias, kings of Juda
2 Hear, O ye heavens, and give ear, O earth, for the Lord hath spoken. I have brought up children, and exalted them: but they have despised me.
3 The ox knoweth his owner, and the ass his master's crib: but Israel hath not known me, and my people hath not understood.

[Responsory1]
R. I look from afar, and behold I see the Power of God, coming like as a cloud to cover the land with the hosts of his People: * Go ye out to meet him and say: * Tell us if thou art he, * That shalt reign over God's people Israel.
V. All ye that dwell in the world, all ye children of men, high and low, rich and poor, one with another. Go ye out to meet him and say.
V. Hear, O thou Shepherd of Israel, thou that leadest Joseph like a sheep. Tell us if thou art he.
V. Lift up your heads, O ye gates, and be ye lift up, ye everlasting doors, and the King of Glory shall come in. That shalt reign over God's people Israel.
&Gloria
R. I look from afar, and behold I see the Power of God, coming like as a cloud to cover the land with the hosts of his People: * Go ye out to meet him and say: * Tell us if thou art he, * That shalt reign over God's people Israel.

[Lectio2]
!Isa 1:4-6
4 Woe to the sinful nation, a people laden with iniquity, a wicked seed, ungracious children: they have forsaken the Lord, they have blasphemed the Holy One of Israel, they are gone away backwards.
5 For what shall I strike you any more, you that increase transgression? the whole head is sick, and the whole heart is sad.
6 From the sole of the foot unto the top of the head, there is no soundness therein: wounds and bruises and swelling sores: they are not bound up, nor dressed, nor fomented with oil.

[Responsory2]
R. I saw in the night visions, and, behold, the Son of man came with the clouds of heaven, and there was given Him a Kingdom, and glory;
* And all people, nations, and languages shall serve Him.
V. His dominion is an everlasting dominion which shall not pass away, and His Kingdom that which shall not be destroyed.
R. And all people, nations, and languages shall serve Him.

[Lectio3]
!Isa 1:7-9
7 Your land is desolate, your cities are burnt with fire: your country strangers devour before your face, and it shall be desolate as when wasted by enemies.
8 And the daughter of Sion shall be left as a covert in a vineyard, and as a lodge in a garden of cucumbers, and as a city that is laid waste.
9 Except the Lord of hosts had left us seed, we had been as Sodom, and we should have been like to Gomorrha.

[Responsory3]
R. The Angel Gabriel was sent to Mary, a Virgin espoused to Joseph, to bring unto her the word of the Lord, and when the Virgin saw the light, she was afraid. Fear not, Mary, for thou hast found grace from the Lord.
* Behold, thou shalt conceive and bring forth a son, and He shall be called the Son of the Highest.
V. The Lord God shall give unto Him the throne of His father David, and He shall reign over the house of Jacob for ever.
R. Behold, thou shalt conceive, and bring forth a son, and He shall be called the Son of the Highest.
&Gloria
R. Behold, thou shalt conceive and bring forth a son, and He shall be called the Son of the Highest.

[Lectio4]
From the Sermons of Pope St. Leo (the Great,)
!8th on the December Fast, and almsgiving.
Our Saviour Himself instructed His disciples concerning the times and seasons of the coming of the Kingdom of God and the end of the world, and He hath given the same teaching to the Church by the mouth of His Apostles. In connection with this subject then, Our Lord biddeth us beware lest we let our hearts grow heavy through excess of meat and drink, and worldly thoughts. Dearly beloved brethren, we know how that this warning applieth particularly to us. We know that that day is coming, and though for a season we know not the very hour, yet this we know, that it is near.

[Responsory4]
R. Hail, Mary, full of grace; the Lord is with thee;
* The Holy Ghost shall come upon thee, and the power of the Highest shall overshadow thee; therefore, also that Holy Thing Which shall be born of thee shall be called the Son of God.
V. How shall this be, seeing I know not a man? And the Angel answered and said unto her,
R. The Holy Ghost shall come upon thee, and the power of the Highest shall overshadow thee; therefore, also that Holy Thing Which shall be born of thee shall be called the Son of God.

[Lectio5]
Let every man then make himself ready against the coming of the Lord, so that He may not find him making his belly his god, or the world his chief care. Dearly beloved brethren, it is a matter of every day experience that fulness of drink dulleth the keenness of the mind, and that excess of eating unnerveth the strength of the will. The very stomach protesteth that gluttony doth harm to the bodily health, unless temperance get the better of desire, and the thought of the indigestion afterward check the indulgence of the moment.

[Responsory5]
R. We look for the Saviour, the Lord Jesus Christ;
* Who shall change our vile body, that it may be fashioned like unto His glorious Body.
V. We should live soberly, and righteously, and godly in this present world, looking for that blessed hope, and the glorious appearing of the great God.
R. Who shall change our vile body, that it may be fashioned like unto His glorious Body.

[Lectio6]
The body without the soul hath no desires; its sensibility cometh from the same source as its movements. And it is the duty of a man with a reasonable soul to deny something to his lower nature and to keep back the outer man from things unseemly. Then will his soul, free from fleshly cravings, sit often at leisure in the palace of the mind, dwelling on the wisdom of God. There, when the roar and rattle of earthly cares are stilled, will she feed on holy thoughts and entertain herself with the expectation of the everlasting joy.

[Responsory6]
R. O my Lord, send I pray thee, Him Whom Thou wilt send; see the affliction of thy people. As Thou hast promised, come;
* And deliver us.
V. Give ear, O Shepherd of Israel, Thou That leadest Joseph like a flock, Thou That sittest upon the Cherubim!
R. As Thou hast promised, come.
&Gloria
R. And deliver us.

[Lectio7]
From the Holy Gospel according to Luke
!Luke 21:25-33
In that time, Jesus said to his disciples: And there shall be signs in the sun, and in the moon, and in the stars; and upon the earth distress of nations. And so on.
_
Homily by Pope St. Gregory (the Great,)
!1st on the Gospels
Our Lord and Saviour wisheth to find us ready at His second coming. Therefore He telleth us what will be the evils of the world as it groweth old, that He may wean our hearts from worldly affections. Here we read what great convulsions will go before the end, that, if we will not fear God in our prosperity, we may at least be scourged into fearing His judgment when it is at hand.

[Responsory7]
R. Behold, the Virgin shall conceive, and bear a son, saith the Lord;
* And His name shall be called Wonderful, the Mighty God.
V. He shall sit upon the throne of David, and upon his kingdom for ever.
R. And His name shall be called Wonderful, the Mighty God.

[Lectio8]
Immediately before the passage which hath just been read from the Gospel, are found the following words of our Lord, Nation shall rise against nation, and kingdom against kingdom, and great earthquakes shall be in diverse places, and pestilences and famines. Then, after a few more verses, cometh today's Gospel. There shall be signs in the sun, and in the moon, and in the stars; and upon the earth distress of nations with perplexity, the sea and the waves roaring. Now some of these things are come to pass already, and we fear the others are not far off.

[Responsory8]
R. Hear the word of the Lord, O ye nations, and declare it in the ends of the earth;
* And in the isles afar off, and say: Our Saviour shall come.
V. Declare it and make it known, lift up your voice and cry aloud.
R. And in the isles afar off, and say: Our Saviour shall come.

[Lectio9]
In these our days we see nation rise against nation, and their distress over all the earth, more than we read in books hath ever come to pass of old time. Ye know also how often we hear of earthquakes overwhelming countless cities in other parts of the world. As for pestilences, we suffer from them ourselves, with hardly any intermission. As yet we do not see signs in the sun, and in the moon, and in the stars; but the changes of seasons and climates warn us that we may look for these also before long.

[Responsory9]
R. Behold, the days come, saith the Lord, that I will raise unto David a righteous Branch; and a King shall reign in wisdom and shall execute judgment and justice in the earth:
* And this is His name whereby He shall be called: * The Lord our Righteous one.
V. In His days Judah shall be saved, and Israel shall dwell safely.
R. And this is His name whereby He shall be called.
&Gloria
R. The Lord our Righteous one.

[Ant 2]
The Holy Ghost shall come upon thee, * O Mary; fear not, thou shalt bear in thy womb the Son of God. Alleluia.

[Capitulum Nona]
!Rom 13:13-14
v. Let us walk honestly, as in the day: not in rioting and drunkenness, not in chambering and impurities, not in contention and envy: But put ye on the Lord Jesus Christ.
$Deo gratias

[Ant 3]
Fear not, Mary, * for thou hast found grace with the Lord; behold, thou shalt conceive in thy womb, and bring forth a son. Alleluia. 
