[Rank]
Dominica II Adventus;;Semiduplex;;5.6

[Rank1960]
Dominica II Adventus;;Semiduplex;;6

[Rule]
9 lectiones
Antiphonas horas

[Ant Laudes]
Behold, the Lord * cometh in the clouds of heaven with great power. Alleluia.
Our Zion is a strong city, * the Saviour will God appoint in her for walls and bulwarks; open ye the gates, for God is with us. Alleluia.
Behold, the Lord * shall appear and not lie though He tarry, wait for Him, because He will come and will not tarry. Alleluia.
The mountains and the hills * shall break forth before God into singing, and all the trees of the wood shall clap their hands for the Lord the Ruler cometh, and He shall reign for ever and ever. Alleluia, Alleluia.
Behold, our Lord * cometh with power, and He shall lighten the eyes of His servants. Alleluia.

[Capitulum Vespera]
!Rom 15:4
v. Brothers: For what things soever were written, were written for our learning: that through patience and the comfort of the scriptures, we might have hope.
$Deo gratias

[Ant 1]
Come, O Lord, * visit us in peace, that we may rejoice before thee with all our heart.

[Oratio]
Stir up our hearts, O Lord, to make ready the ways of thine Only-begotten Son, that by His coming our minds being purified, we may the more worthily give up ourselves to thy service:
$Qui tecum

[Lectio1]
Lesson from the book of Isaias
!Isa 11:1-4
1 And there shall come forth a rod out of the root of Jesse, and a flower shall rise up out of his root.
2 And the spirit of the Lord shall rest upon him: the spirit of wisdom, and of understanding, the spirit of counsel, and of fortitude, the spirit of knowledge, and of godliness.
3 And he shall be filled with the spirit of the fear of the Lord. He shall not judge according to the sight of the eyes, nor reprove according to the hearing of the ears.
4 But he shall judge the poor with justice, and shall reprove with equity for the meek of the earth.

[Responsory1]
R. Thy salvation cometh quickly, O Jerusalem; why art thou wasted with sorrow? Is there no counselor in thee, that pangs have taken thee?
* Fear not, for I will save thee and deliver thee.
V. For I am the Lord, thy God, the Holy One of Israel, thy Saviour.
R. Fear not, for I will save thee, and deliver thee.

[Lectio2]
!Isa 11:4-7
4 And he shall strike the earth with the rod of his mouth, and with the breath of his lips he shall slay the wicked.
5 And justice shall be the girdle of his loins: and faith the girdle of his reins.
6 The wolf shall dwell with the lamb: and the leopard shall lie down with the kid: the calf and the lion, and the sheep shall abide together, and a little child shall lead them.
7 The calf and the bear shall feed: their young ones shall rest together: and the lion shall eat straw like the ox.

[Responsory2]
R. Behold, the Lord shall come, and all His saints with Him, and it shall come to pass in that day that the light shall be great; and they shall go out from Jerusalem like clean water; and the Lord shall be King for ever,
* Over all the earth.
V. Behold, the Lord cometh with an host, and in His hand are the kingdom, and power, and dominion.
R. Over all the earth.

[Lectio3]
!Isa 11:8-10
8 And the sucking child shall play on the hole of the asp: and the weaned child shall thrust his hand into the den of the basilisk.
9 They shall not hurt, nor shall they kill in all my holy mountain, for the earth is filled with the knowledge of the Lord, as the covering waters of the sea.
10 In that day the root of Jesse, who standeth for an ensign of the people, him the Gentiles shall beseech, and his sepulchre shall be glorious.

[Responsory3]
R. O, thou city of Jerusalem, weep not, for the Lord hath repented Him concerning thee.
* And He will take away from thee all distress.
V. Behold, the Lord shall come with might, and His arm shall rule.
R. And He will take away from thee all distress.
&Gloria
R. And He will take away from thee all distress.

[Lectio4]
From the Commentary on the Prophecies of Isaiah made by St. Jerome, Priest (at Bethlehem)
!Book iv, c. xi
And there shall come forth a rod out of the stem of Jesse. From the beginning of the Book of this Prophet till the xiiith chapter, where commenceth the vision, or burden of Babylon, the whole of the vision of Isaiah, the son of Amoz, is one continual prophecy of Christ. We must explain it part by part, for if we were to take it all at once, the memory of the reader would be confused. According to the Jewish commentators, the rod and the flower would both relate to the Lord Himself. They take the rod to mean the sceptre of His Royal dominion, and the flower the loveliness of His beauty.

[Responsory4]
R. Behold, there cometh the Lord, our defender, the Holy One of Israel,
* Wearing a royal crown upon His head.
V. And His dominion shall be from sea even to sea, and from the river even to the ends of the earth.
R. Wearing a royal crown upon His head.

[Lectio5]
We, however, understand that the rod out of the root of Jesse signifieth the holy Virgin Mary. She was a clean stem that had as yet put forth no shoot; as we have read above Behold, the Virgin shall conceive and bear a son. (Isa. vii. 14.) And the flower we believe to mean the Lord our Redeemer, Who hath elsewhere compared Himself to a flower; I am a flower of the plain, and a lily of the valleys. (Cant. ii. 1.)

[Responsory5]
R. As a mother comforteth her children, so will I comfort you, saith the Lord; My help also cometh unto you out of Jerusalem, the city which I have chosen.
* And when ye see this, your heart shall rejoice.
V. I will place salvation in Zion and in Jerusalem My glory.
R. And when ye shall see this, your heart shall rejoice.

[Lectio6]
The Spirit of the Lord then shall rest upon this flower; this flower which shall come forth from the stem and roots of Jesse by means of the Virgin Mary. And truly the Spirit of the Lord did rest upon our Redeemer. It is written that In Him dwelleth all the fulness of the Godhead bodily. (Col. ii. 9.) The Spirit was not shed on Him by measure, as it is upon the (4 Isa. Ixvi. 13, 14. Isa. xlvi. 13.) Saints. To Him we may apply the words of the Hebrew Gospel used by the Nazarenes; The whole fountain of the Holy Ghost shall be poured forth upon Him The Lord is a spirit, and where the Spirit of the Lord is, there is liberty. (2 Cor. iii. 17.)

[Responsory6]
R. Thou shalt yet plant vines upon thy mountains, O Jerusalem thou shalt sing for joy, for the day of the Lord cometh; arise, O Zion, and turn unto the Lord thy God; rejoice and be glad, O Jacob.
* For thy Saviour cometh from the midst of the nations.
V. Sing aloud for joy, O daughter of Zion; shout with gladness, O daughter of Jerusalem.
R. For thy Saviour cometh from the midst of the nations.
&Gloria
R. For thy Saviour cometh from the midst of the nations.

[Lectio7]
From the Holy Gospel according to Matthew
!Matt 11:2-10
In that time, when John had heard in prison the works of Christ: sending two of his disciples he said to him: Art thou he that art to come, or look we for another? And so on.
_
Homily by Pope St. Gregory (the Great.)
!6th Homily on the Gospels
The sight of so many signs and so many mighty works should have been a source of wonder, and not a stumbling-block. And yet the unfaithful (Jer. xxxi. 5.) found these very works a rock of offence, when they afterwards saw Him Who had worked so many miracles dying on the Cross. Hence Paul saith: "We preach Christ crucified, unto the Jews a stumbling-block and unto the Gentiles foolishness." (1 Cor. i. 23.) It is indeed folly in the eyes of men to say that the Author of life died for men and thus men put as a stumbling-block to hinder them from coming to Jesus, the very thing that doth oblige them the most unto Him. For the more humbling God hath undergone for man's sake, the more worthy is He that man should worship Him.

[Responsory7]
R. The Lord shall go forth out of Samaria unto the gate that looketh toward the East; and He shall come into Bethlehem, walking upon the waters of the redemption of Judah.
* Then shall every one be saved for, behold, He cometh.
V. And in mercy shall His throne be established, and He shall sit upon it in truth.
R. Then shall every one be saved for, behold, He cometh.

[Lectio8]
And blessed is he, whosoever shall not be offended in Me. Now what is this, but a plain mention of that time, when He afterwards humbled Himself, becoming obedient unto death, even the death of the Cross? It is as if He said: I indeed do wonderful works, but the day will come when I shall not refuse to suffer shame and evil treatment. Take heed then, ye who now worship Me for the works' sake, that when I come to die ye despise Me not for My death's sake.

[Responsory8]
R. Make haste, O Lord, make no tarrying.
* And deliver thy people.
V. O Lord, come and make no tarrying loose the bonds of thy people.
R. And deliver thy people.

[Lectio9]
And, as the disciples of John departed, what did Jesus say unto the multitudes concerning this same John? Let us hear. What went ye out into the wilderness to see? A reed shaken with the wind? Here our Lord teacheth not by assertion, but by negation. Now a reed is a thing so made that as soon as the wind bloweth upon it, it bendeth it over toward the opposite quarter. And the fleshly-minded man is like a human reed. As he is praised or blamed so he bendeth himself in the one direction or the other.

[Responsory9]
R. Behold, the Lord cometh down with glory, and His host is with Him.
* To visit His people in peace, and to establish them in life everlasting.
V. Behold, our Lord cometh with an host.
R. To visit His people in peace, and to establish them in life everlasting.
&Gloria
R. To visit His people in peace, and to establish them in life everlasting.

[Ant 2]
Now when John * had heard in the prison the works of Christ, he sent two of his disciples and said unto Him: Art Thou He That should come, or do we look for another?

[Capitulum Sexta]
!Rom 15:5-6
v. Now the God of patience and of comfort grant you to be of one mind one towards another, according to Jesus Christ:That with one mind, and with one mouth, you may glorify God and the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ.
$Deo gratias

[Capitulum Nona]
!Rom 15:13
v. Now the God of hope fill you with all joy and peace in believing; that you may abound in hope, and in the power of the Holy Ghost.
$Deo gratias

[Ant 3]
Art thou he that art to come * or look we for another? Go and relate to John what you have seen: the blind see, the dead rise again, to the poor the gospel is preached. Alleluia.
