[Doxology]
All praise to Thee, O Jesus,
who parents dost obey;
Praise to the sovereign Father
and Paraclete for aye. 

[Ant 1]
The Word was made flesh, * and dwelt among us, full of grace and truth; and of his fulness we all have received, and grace for grace, alleluia.

[Oratio]
Lord Jesus Christ, who subject to Mary and Joseph, didst consecrate family life by thy unspeakable virtues, aid us by their united intercession to profit by the examples of thy Holy Family, and attain to their everlasting companionship:
$Qui vivis

[Lectio5]
To all fathers of families, Joseph is verily the best model of paternal vigilance and care. In the most holy Virgin Mother of God, mothers may find an excellent example of love, modesty, resignation of spirit, and the perfecting of faith. And in Jesus, who was subject to his parents, the children of the family have a divine pattern of obedience which they can admire, reverence, and imitate. Those who are of noble birth may learn, from this Family of royal blood, how to live simply in times of prosperity, and how to retain their dignity in times of distress. The rich may learn that moral worth is to be more highly esteemed than wealth. Artisans, and all such as are bitterly grieved by the narrow and slender means of their families, if they would but consider the sublime holiness of the members of this domestic fellowship, cannot fail to find some cause for rejoicing in their lot, rather than for being merely dissatisfied with it. In common with the Holy Family, they have to work, and to provide for the daily wants of life. Joseph had to engage in trade, in order to live; even the divine hands laboured at an artisan's calling. It is not to be wondered at, that the wealthiest men, if truly wise, have been willing to cast away their riches, and to embrace a life of poverty with Jesus, Mary, and Joseph.

[Responsory5]
R. The foxes have holes, and the birds of the air have nests, 
* But the Son of Man hath not where to lay his head.
V. I am poor and needy, and in agony from my youth up.
R. But the Son of Man hath not where to lay his head.

[Responsory6]
R. Being in the form of God, he made himself of no reputation, 
* And he took upon him the form of a servant.
V. He humbled himself, and became obedient, even unto death.
R. And he took upon him the form of a servant.
&Gloria
R. And he took upon him the form of a servant.

[Lectio7]
From the Holy Gospel according to Luke
!Luke 2:42-52
And when he was twelve years old, they going up into Jerusalem, according to the custom of the feast, And having fulfilled the days, when they returned, the child Jesus remained in Jerusalem; and his parents knew it not. And so on.
_
Homily of St. Bernard Abbot
!Homilia super Missus est, n. 7-8
And he was subject unto them. Who was subject? And to whom? God to man! God, I repeat, to whom the Angels are subject, whom the Principalities and Powers do obey, was subject to Mary; and not only to Mary, but to Joseph also for Mary's sake. Marvel, therefore, both at God and man, and choose that which giveth greater wonder, whether it be the most loving condescension of the Son, or the exceeding great dignity of his Mother. Both amaze us, both are marvellous. That God should obey a woman is lowliness without parallel, that woman should rule over God, an elevation beyond comparison. In praise of virgins it is sung of them alone, that they follow the Lamb whithersoever he goeth. Of what praise do ye judge that woman to be worthy who is thus placed before the Lamb of God.

[Lectio9]
If thou canst not enter upon the lofty paths of virginity, at least follow God by the most safe road of humility. If any turn aside from this straight way, though they be virgins, they do not follow the Lamb, if the truth be told, whithersoever he goeth. The humble man, though stained with sin, followeth the Lamb; the virgin, though proud, also followeth; but neither of these twain followeth whithersoever he goeth. The former cannot attain unto the purity of the Lamb, for he is without spot; the latter deigneth not to descend to his meekness, who was dumb, not before the shearer, but before the murderer. Yet the sinner who followeth in humility hath chosen a more saving way than the proud man who followeth in virginity; for the humble one maketh satisfaction, and is cleansed of his impurity, but the proud one's chastity is stained by his pride.
&teDeum

[Ant 2]
Enlighten us, O Lord, * by the example of thy family, and direct our feet into the way of peace.

[Ant Vespera 3]
And Jacob * begot Joseph the husband of Mary, of whom was born Jesus, who is called Christ.;;109
The angel of the Lord * appeared to Joseph in his sleep, saying: Joseph, son of David, fear not to take unto thee Mary thy wife, for that which is conceived in her, is of the Holy Ghost.;;112
The shepherds came * with haste; and they found Mary and Joseph, and the infant lying in the manger.;;121
The Magi, entering into the house, * found the child with Mary his mother.;;126
His father * and mother were wondering at those things which were spoken concerning him.;;147
