[Rank]
Sanctae Familiae Jesu Mariae Joseph;;Duplex majus;;3.9
(sed rubrica 1960)
Sanctae Familiae Jesu Mariae Joseph;;Duplex II classis;;5

[Rule]
9 lectiones
Psalmi Dominica
Antiphonas horas
No Sunday Commemoratio

[Ant Vespera]
And Jacob * begot Joseph the husband of Mary, of whom was born Jesus, who is called Christ.;;109
The angel of the Lord * appeared to Joseph in his sleep, saying: Joseph, son of David, fear not to take unto thee Mary thy wife, for that which is conceived in her, is of the Holy Ghost.;;112
The shepherds came * with haste; and they found Mary and Joseph, and the infant lying in the manger.;;121
The Magi, entering into the house, * found the child with Mary his mother.;;126
His father * and mother were wondering at those things which were spoken concerning him.;;147

[Capitulum Vespera]
!Luke 2:51
v. Jesus went down with Mary and Joseph, and came to Nazareth, and was subject to them.
$Deo gratias

[Hymnus Vespera]
v. O highest hope of mortals,
Blest Light of Saints above,
O Jesu, on whose boyhood
Home smiled with kindly love;
_
And thou whose bosom nursed him,
O Mary, highly graced, 
Whose breast gave milk to Jesus, 
Whose arms thy God embraced;
_
And thou of all men chosen
To guard the Virgin’s fame,
To whom God’s Son refused not
A Father’s gracious name;
_
Born for the nation’s healing,
Of Jesse’s lineage high,
Behold the suppliants kneeling,
O hear the sinners’ cry!
_
The sun returned to evening,
Dusks all the twilight air:
We, lingering here before you,
Pour out our heartfelt prayer.
_
Your home was as a garden
Made glad with fairest flowers;
May life thus blossom sweetly
In every home of ours.
_
All praise to Thee, O Jesus,
who parents dost obey;
Praise to the sovereign Father
and Paraclete for aye. 
Amen.

[Doxology]
All praise to Thee, O Jesus,
who parents dost obey;
Praise to the sovereign Father
and Paraclete for aye. 

[Versum Prima]
Who subdued yourself to Mary and Joseph.

[Versum 1]
V. Blessed are they that dwell in thy house, O Lord.
R. They shall praise thee for ever and ever.

[Ant 1]
The Word was made flesh, * and dwelt among us, full of grace and truth; and of his fulness we all have received, and grace for grace, alleluia.

[Oratio]
Lord Jesus Christ, who subject to Mary and Joseph, didst consecrate family life by thy unspeakable virtues, aid us by their united intercession to profit by the examples of thy Holy Family, and attain to their everlasting companionship:
$Qui vivis

[Invit]
Christ, Son of God, subject to Mary and Joseph, * O come, let us worship Him.

[Hymnus Matutinum]
v. A thousand lights their glory shed
On shrines and altars garlanded;
While swinging censers dusk the air
With perfumed prayer.
_
And shall we sing the ancestry
Of Jesus, Son of God most High?
Or the heroic names retrace 
Of David’s race?
_
Sweeter is lowly Nazareth, 
Where Jesus drew His childish breath— 
Sweeter the singing that endears
His hidden years.
_
An Angel leads the pilgrim band 
From Egypt to their native land, 
Where Jesus clings to Joseph’s arm,
Secure from harm.
_
“And the Child grew in wisdom’s ken
And years and grace with God and men;”
And in His father’s humble art 
Took share and part.
_
"With toil", saith He, “my limbs are wet,
Prefiguring the Bloody Sweat:” 
Ah! how He bears our chastisement
With sweet content!
_
At Joseph’s bench, at Jesus’ side, 
The Mother sits, the Virgin-Bride; 
Happy, if she may cheer their hearts
With loving arts.
_
O Blessed Three! who felt the sting
Of want and toil and suffering, 
Pity the needy and obscure
Lot of the poor.
_
Banish the “pride of life” from all
Whom ampler wealth and joys befall:
Be every heart with love repaid 
That seeks your aid.
_
Glory to Thee, Jesu dear, 
Model of holy living here! 
Who reign’st, with Sire and Holy Ghost,
O’er heaven’s host.
Amen.

[Ant Matutinum]
When his parents * brought the Child Jesus, then Simeon took him up in his arms, and blessed God.;;8
When they had performed * all things according to the Law of the Lord, they returned into Galilee, to their own city Nazareth.;;18
And the Child grew, * and waxed strong in spirit, filled with wisdom, and the grace of God was upon him.;;23
V. He was rich, yet for our sakes he became poor.
R. That we through his poverty might be rich.
When Joseph arose, * he took the young Child and his Mother by night, and departed into Egypt.;;44
And the Angel of the Lord * said in a dream to Joseph in Egypt, Arise, and take the young Child and his Mother, and go into the land of Israel.;;45
And he came * and dwelt in a city called Nazareth, that it might be fulfilled which was spoken by the Prophets: He shall be called a Nazarene.;;86
V. The Lord shall teach us of his ways.
R. And we will walk in his paths.
Now the parents of Jesus * went to Jerusalem every year at the Feast of the Passover.;;95
And when they returned, * the Child Jesus tarried behind in Jerusalem, and his parents knew not of it.;;96
But when they found him not, * they turned back again to Jerusalem, seeking him.;;97
V. I am poor and needy, and in agony from my youth up.
R. Thy terrors have I suffered with a troubled mind.

[Lectio1]
Lesson from the letter of St. Paul the Apostle to the Colossians
!Col 3:12-16
12 Put ye on therefore, as the elect of God, holy, and beloved, the bowels of mercy, benignity, humility, modesty, patience:
13 Bearing with one another, and forgiving one another, if any have a complaint against another: even as the Lord hath forgiven you, so do you also.
14 But above all these things have charity, which is the bond of perfection:
15 And let the peace of Christ rejoice in your hearts, wherein also you are called in one body: and be ye thankful.
16 Let the word of Christ dwell in you abundantly, in all wisdom: teaching and admonishing one another in psalms, hymns, and spiritual canticles, singing in grace in your hearts to God.

[Responsory1]
R. Our God did shew himself upon earth, 
* And held converse with men.
V. He hath found out all the way of knowledge, and hath given it unto Jacob his servant.
R. And held converse with men.

[Lectio2]
!Col 3:17-21
17 All whatsoever you do in word or in work, do all in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ, giving thanks to God and the Father by him.
18 Wives, be subject to your husbands, as it behoveth in the Lord.
19 Husbands, love your wives, and be not bitter towards them.
20 Children, obey your parents in all things: for this is well pleasing to the Lord.
21 Fathers, provoke not your children to indignation, lest they be discouraged.

[Responsory2]
R. Blessed are they that live 
* In thy house, O Lord.
V. They shall praise thee for ever and ever.
R. In thy house, O Lord.

[Lectio3]
!Col 3:22-25; 4:1-2
22 Servants, obey in all things your masters according to the flesh, not serving to the eye, as pleasing men, but in simplicity of heart, fearing God.
23 Whatsoever you do, do it from the heart, as to the Lord, and not to men:
24 Knowing that you shall receive of the Lord the reward of inheritance. Serve ye the Lord Christ.
25 For he that doth wrong, shall receive for that which he hath done wrongfully: and there is no respect of persons with God.
1 Masters, do to your servants that which is just and equal: knowing that you also have a master in heaven.
2 Be instant in prayer; watching in it with thanksgiving:

[Responsory3]
R. In all things it behoved him to be made like unto his brethren, 
* That he might be merciful.
V. Though he was the Son of God, yet learned he obedience by the things which he suffered.
R. That he might be merciful.
&Gloria
R. That he might be merciful.

[Lectio4]
From the Apostolic Letters of Pope Leo XIII
!Breve « Neminem fugit » 14 junii 1892
When God in his mercy determined to accomplish the work of man's renewal, which same had so many long ages awaited, he appointed and ordained this work on such wise that its very beginning might shew to the world the august spectacle of a Family which was known to be divinely constituted; that therein all men might behold a perfect model, as well of domestic life as of every virtue and pattern of holiness: for such indeed was the Holy Family of Nazareth. There in secret dwelt the Sun of Righteousness, until the time when he should shine out in full splendour in the sight of all nations. There Christ, our God and Saviour, lived with his Virgin Mother, and with that most holy man Joseph, who held to him the place of father. No one can doubt that in this Holy Family was displayed every virtue which can be called forth by an ordinary home life, with its mutual services of charity, its holy intercourse, and its practices of godly piety, since the Holy Family was destined to be a pattern to all others. For that very reason was it established by the merciful designs of Providence, namely, that every Christian, in every walk of life and in every place, might easily, if he would but give heed to it, have before him a motive and a pattern for the good life.

[Responsory4]
R. As for me, I am poor and needy: 
* But the Lord careth for me.
V. Thou shalt eat the labours of thine hands; blessed art thou, and happy shalt thou be.
R. But the Lord careth for me.

[Lectio5]
To all fathers of families, Joseph is verily the best model of paternal vigilance and care. In the most holy Virgin Mother of God, mothers may find an excellent example of love, modesty, resignation of spirit, and the perfecting of faith. And in Jesus, who was subject to his parents, the children of the family have a divine pattern of obedience which they can admire, reverence, and imitate. Those who are of noble birth may learn, from this Family of royal blood, how to live simply in times of prosperity, and how to retain their dignity in times of distress. The rich may learn that moral worth is to be more highly esteemed than wealth. Artisans, and all such as are bitterly grieved by the narrow and slender means of their families, if they would but consider the sublime holiness of the members of this domestic fellowship, cannot fail to find some cause for rejoicing in their lot, rather than for being merely dissatisfied with it. In common with the Holy Family, they have to work, and to provide for the daily wants of life. Joseph had to engage in trade, in order to live; even the divine hands laboured at an artisan's calling. It is not to be wondered at, that the wealthiest men, if truly wise, have been willing to cast away their riches, and to embrace a life of poverty with Jesus, Mary, and Joseph.

[Responsory5]
R. The foxes have holes, and the birds of the air have nests, 
* But the Son of Man hath not where to lay his head.
V. I am poor and needy, and in agony from my youth up.
R. But the Son of Man hath not where to lay his head.

[Lectio6]
From the foregoing it is evident how natural and fitting it was that devotion to the Holy Family should in due time have grown up amongst Catholics; and once begun, that it should spread far and wide. Proof of this lieth first in the sodalities instituted under the ínvocation of the Holy Family; then in the unique honours bestowed upon it; and above all, by the privileges and favours granted to this devotion by our predecessors to stimulate fervour and piety in its regard. This devotion was already held in great esteem in the seventeenth century. Widely propagated in Italy, France, and Belgium, it spread over almost the whole of Europe; thence, crossing the wide ocean, through Canada it made is way in the Americas, and finding favour there, became very flourishing. Indeed, among Christian families, nothing more salutary nor efficacious can be imagined than the example of the Holy Family, where are to be found all domestic virtues in perfection and completeness. When Jesus, Mary, and Joseph are invoked in the home, charity is likely to be maintained in the family through their example and heavenly entreaty; a good influence is thus exerted over conduct; the practice of virtue is thus incited; and thus the hardships which are everywhere wont to harass mankind, are both mitigated and made easier to bear. To increase devotion to the Holy Family, Pope Leo XIII prescribed that Christian families should be consecrated thereto. Benedict XV extended the Mass and Office to the whole Church.

[Responsory6]
R. Being in the form of God, he made himself of no reputation, 
* And he took upon him the form of a servant.
V. He humbled himself, and became obedient, even unto death.
R. And he took upon him the form of a servant.
&Gloria
R. And he took upon him the form of a servant.

[Lectio7]
From the Holy Gospel according to Luke
!Luke 2:42-52
And when he was twelve years old, they going up into Jerusalem, according to the custom of the feast, And having fulfilled the days, when they returned, the child Jesus remained in Jerusalem; and his parents knew it not. And so on.
_
Homily of St. Bernard Abbot
!Homilia super Missus est, n. 7-8
And he was subject unto them. Who was subject? And to whom? God to man! God, I repeat, to whom the Angels are subject, whom the Principalities and Powers do obey, was subject to Mary; and not only to Mary, but to Joseph also for Mary's sake. Marvel, therefore, both at God and man, and choose that which giveth greater wonder, whether it be the most loving condescension of the Son, or the exceeding great dignity of his Mother. Both amaze us, both are marvellous. That God should obey a woman is lowliness without parallel, that woman should rule over God, an elevation beyond comparison. In praise of virgins it is sung of them alone, that they follow the Lamb whithersoever he goeth. Of what praise do ye judge that woman to be worthy who is thus placed before the Lamb of God.

[Responsory7]
R. Verily, thou art a King that hidest thyself, 
* O God of Israel, the Saviour.
V. Thou teachest man knowledge.
R. O God of Israel, the Saviour.

[Lectio8]
Learn, O man, to obey! Learn, O earth, to be subject! Learn, O dust, to submit! The Evangelist speaking of thy Creator saith: And he was subject unto them. And there is no doubt that this sheweth us that God was subject to Mary and Joseph. Shame on you, ye proud entities of dust and ashes! God abaseth himself, and dost thou, O creature sprung from the earth, exalt thyself? God maketh himself subject to man, and dost thou, who art always so eager to lord it over men, set up thyself to lord it over thy Creator? For as often soever as I desire pre-eminency over men, so often do I strive to excel God. For of him it was said: And he was subject unto them. If thou disdainest, O man, to follow the example of man, at least thou canst follow thy Creator without dishonour. If thou canst not, perchance, follow him whithersoever he goeth, deign at least to follow him in this thing wherein he hath emptied himself, and made himself of no reputation, for the sake of such as thou.

[Responsory8]
R. As by one man's disobedience many were made sinners, 
* So by the obedience of one Man shall many be made righteous.
V. He came to Nazareth, and was subject unto them.
R. So by the obedience of one Man shall many be made righteous.
&Gloria
R. So by the obedience of one Man shall many be made righteous.

[Lectio9]
If thou canst not enter upon the lofty paths of virginity, at least follow God by the most safe road of humility. If any turn aside from this straight way, though they be virgins, they do not follow the Lamb, if the truth be told, whithersoever he goeth. The humble man, though stained with sin, followeth the Lamb; the virgin, though proud, also followeth; but neither of these twain followeth whithersoever he goeth. The former cannot attain unto the purity of the Lamb, for he is without spot; the latter deigneth not to descend to his meekness, who was dumb, not before the shearer, but before the murderer. Yet the sinner who followeth in humility hath chosen a more saving way than the proud man who followeth in virginity; for the humble one maketh satisfaction, and is cleansed of his impurity, but the proud one's chastity is stained by his pride.
&teDeum

[Ant Laudes]
After three days, * they found him in the temple, sitting in the midst of the doctors, hearing them, and asking them questions.
The mother of Jesus said * to him: Son, why hast thou done so to us? Behold thy father and I have sought thee sorrowing.
Jesus went down * with them, and came to Nazareth, and was subject to them.
And Jesus advanced * in wisdom, and age, and grace with God and men.
And they said: * How came this man by this wisdom and miracles? Is not this the carpenter's son?

[Hymnus Laudes]
O house of Nazareth the blest, 
Fair hostess of the Lord,
The Church was nurtured at Thy breast
And shared thy scanty hoard.
_
In all the spreading lands of earth
The wandering sun may see
No dearer spot, no ampler worth
Than erst was found in thee!
_
We know thy humble tenement
Was heaven’s hermitage:
Celestial heralds came and went
In endless embassage.
_
There, whatsoever Joseph asks
Christ hastens to fulfill;
While Mary loves the household tasks
That wait her joyous will.
_
There, Joseph toileth at her side 
Her joys and griefs to share, 
With thousand ties knit to his bride,
Of love and work and prayer.
_
Yet how their bosoms constant burn
And deeper ardors prove 
In love of Christ, whose eyes return
Tokens of mutual love.
_
O then, in all the homes of earth, 
Be Love the bond of life:
May it enthrone at every hearth 
The peace that husheth strife.
_
All praise to Thee, O Jesus,
who parents dost obey;
Praise to the sovereign Father
and Paraclete for aye. 
Amen.

[Versum 2]
V. All thy children shall be taught of the Lord.
R. and great shall be the peace of thy children.

[Ant 2]
Enlighten us, O Lord, * by the example of thy family, and direct our feet into the way of peace.

[Lectio Prima]
!Phil 2:7
v. But emptied himself, taking the form of a servant, being made in the likeness of men, and in habit found as a man.

[Responsory Tertia]
R.br. For our sake he became poor, * Being rich.
R. For our sake he became poor, * Being rich.
V. That through his poverty we might be rich.
R. Being rich.
&Gloria
R. For our sake he became poor, * Being rich.
_
V. The Lord will teach us his ways.
R. And we will walk in his paths.

[Capitulum Sexta]
!Rom 5:19
v. For as by the disobedience of one man, many were made sinners; so also by the obedience of one, many shall be made just.
$Deo gratias

[Responsory Sexta]
R.br. The Lord * Will teach us his ways.
R. The Lord * Will teach us his ways.
V. And we will walk in his paths.
R. Will teach us his ways.
&Gloria
R. The Lord * Will teach us his ways.
_
V. I am poor, and in labours from my youth.
R. And being exalted have been humbled and troubled.

[Responsory Nona]
R.br. I am poor, and in labours * from my youth.
R. I am poor, and in labours * from my youth.
V. And being exalted have been humbled and troubled.
R. From my youth.
&Gloria
R. I am poor, and in labours * from my youth.
_
V. All thy children shall be taught of the Lord
R. R. And great shall be the peace of thy children.

[Ant Vespera 3]
After three days, * they found him in the temple, sitting in the midst of the doctors, hearing them, and asking them questions.;;109
The mother of Jesus said * to him: Son, why hast thou done so to us? Behold thy father and I have sought thee sorrowing.;;112
Jesus went down * with them, and came to Nazareth, and was subject to them.;;121
And Jesus advanced * in wisdom, and age, and grace with God and men.;;126
And they said: * How came this man by this wisdom and miracles? Is not this the carpenter's son?;;147

[Ant 3]
But Mary * kept all these words, pondering them in her heart.

[Commemoratio]
!Commemoratio Sunday in Octava Epiphaniae
@Tempora/Epi1-0a:Oratio:s/V\. .*/V. All they from Saba shall come. Alleluia./ s/R\. .*/R. They shall bring gold and incense. Alleluia./
