[Rank]
Feria IV infra Hebdomadam II post Epiphaniam;;Feria;;1

[Rule]
Oratio Dominica

[Lectio1]
Lesson from the second letter of St. Paul the Apostle to the Corinthians
!2 Cor 7:1-3
1 Having therefore these promises, dearly beloved, let us cleanse ourselves from all defilement of the flesh and of the spirit, perfecting sanctification in the fear of God.
2 Receive us. We have injured no man, we have corrupted no man, we have overreached no man.
3 I speak not this to your condemnation. For we have said before, that you are in our hearts, to die together, and to live together.

[Responsory1]
R. Cut me not off in the midst of my sins.
* Nor keep thy wrath against me for my latter end.
V. Enter not into judgment with thy servant, O Lord.
R. Nor keep thy wrath against me for my latter end.

[Lectio2]
!2 Cor 7:4-7
4 Great is my confidence for you, great is my glorying for you. I am filled with comfort: I exceedingly abound with joy in all our tribulation.
5 For also when we were come into Macedonia, our flesh had no rest, but we suffered all tribulation; combats without, fears within.
6 But God, who comforteth the humble, comforted us by the coming of Titus.
7 And not by his coming only, but also by the consolation, wherewith he was comforted in you, relating to us your desire, your mourning, your zeal for me, so that I rejoiced the more.

[Responsory2]
R. My heart is ready, O God, my heart is ready.
* I will sing and give praise to the Lord.
V. Awake up, my glory, awake, psaltery and harp! I will awake early.
R. I will sing and give praise to the Lord.

[Lectio3]
!2 Cor 7:8-10
8 For although I made you sorrowful by my epistle, I do not repent; and if I did repent, seeing that the same epistle (although but for a time) did make you sorrowful;
9 Now I am glad: not because you were made sorrowful; but because you were made sorrowful unto penance. For you were made sorrowful according to God, that you might suffer damage by us in nothing.
10 For the sorrow that is according to God worketh penance, steadfast unto salvation; but the sorrow of the world worketh death.

[Responsory3]
R. Unto thee, O my Strength, will I sing, for God is my defence,
* The God of my mercy.
V. I will be glad and rejoice in thee, I will sing praise to thy Name, O Thou Most High.
R. The God of my mercy.
&Gloria
R. The God of my mercy.
