[Rank]
Dominica V Post Epiphaniam;;Semiduplex;;5

[Rule]
9 lectiones
Symbolum Athanasium

[Oratio]
O Lord, we beseech thee to keep thy family continually in godliness, that they who do lean only upon the hope of thine heavenly grace, may evermore be defended by thy mighty power.
$Per Dominum

[Lectio1]
Lesson from the first letter of St. Paul the Apostle to Timothy
!1 Tim 1:1-4
1 Paul, an apostle of Jesus Christ, according to the commandment of God our Saviour, and of Christ Jesus our hope:
2 To Timothy, his beloved son in faith. Grace, mercy, and peace from God the Father, and from Christ Jesus our Lord.
3 As I desired thee to remain at Ephesus when I went into Macedonia, that thou mightest charge some not to teach otherwise,
4 Not to give heed to fables and endless genealogies: which furnish questions rather than the edification of God, which is in faith.

[Lectio2]
!1 Tim 1:5-11
5 Now the end of the commandment is charity, from a pure heart, and a good conscience, and an unfeigned faith.
6 From which things some going astray, are turned aside unto vain babbling:
7 Desiring to be teachers of the law, understanding neither the things they say, nor whereof they affirm.
8 But we know that the law is good, if a man use it lawfully:
9 Knowing this, that the law is not made for the just man, but for the unjust and disobedient, for the ungodly, and for sinners, for the wicked and defiled, for murderers of fathers, and murderers of mothers, for manslayers,
10 For fornicators, for them who defile themselves with mankind, for menstealers, for liars, for perjured persons, and whatever other thing is contrary to sound doctrine,
11 Which is according to the gospel of the glory of the blessed God, which hath been committed to my trust.

[Lectio3]
!1 Tim 1:12-16
12 I give thanks to him who hath strengthened me, even to Christ Jesus our Lord, for that he hath counted me faithful, putting me in the ministry;
13 Who before was a blasphemer, and a persecutor, and contumelious. But I obtained the mercy of God, because I did it ignorantly in unbelief.
14 Now the grace of our Lord hath abounded exceedingly with faith and love, which is in Christ Jesus.
15 A faithful saying, and worthy of all acceptation, that Christ Jesus came into this world to save sinners, of whom I am the chief.
16 But for this cause have I obtained mercy: that in me first Christ Jesus might shew forth all patience, for the information of them that shall believe in him unto life everlasting.

[Lectio4]
From the Sermons of St. Augustine, Bishop (of Hippo.)
!On the words of the Apostles, 8
This is a saying made for man, and worthy of all acceptation, that Christ Jesus came into this world to save sinners. Listen to the words of the Gospel The Son of man is come to seek, and to save that which was lost. If man had not been lost, the Son of man would not have come. Wherefore, man had been lost; God came made Man, and man was found; man had perished by his own free will God made Man came by grace which setteth free.

[Lectio5]
Dost thou ask how free-will availeth to evil? Call to mind a sinner: Dost thou ask what God made Man availeth to help? Consider in Him the grace which setteth free. There is no example which so showeth what availeth the free will of man, when it is taken possession of by pride, to use it without God's help, of evil is there no greater and plainer example, than the first man. The first man fell and where had he been if the second Man had not come? As the first was man, so was the second Man, and therefore is this saying a saying. made for man.

[Lectio6]
Neither is there any example which so showeth what availeth the tenderness of the grace and the abundance of the All-might of God, as the Man That is the Mediator between God and men, the Man Christ Jesus. For what do we say, my brethren? I speak to them that have been bred up in the Catholic Church, or who have been reconciled to that Church. We know and hold that the Mediator between God and men, the Man Christ Jesus, as touching upon His Manhood, is of the same nature as we. For our flesh is not of one nature, and His Flesh of another nature, neither our soul of one nature and His Soul of another nature. He took upon Himself the same nature which He had freely ordained to save.

[Lectio7]
From the Holy Gospel according to Matthew
!Matt 13:24-30
At that time, Jesus said to the people a parable: The kingdom of heaven is likened to a man that sowed good seeds in his field. And so on.
_
Homily by St. Augustine, Bishop (of Hippo.)
!Quest. Evang. Matth. xi, Bk. 4
When the Shepherds of the Church wax careless, and since the Apostles sleep the sleep of death, cometh the devil, and soweth them whom the Lord calleth a seed of evil-doers. Now, are these seed of evil-doers the heretics, or Catholics of bad lives? It is possible to call even the heretics a seed of evil-doers because they have sprung up from the seed of the Gospel, and been begotten in the Name of Christ, though afterwards they have turned after crooked ways and lying doctrines.

[Lectio8]
But whereas it is written that they were sown in the midst of the wheat, we ought haply to understand that they are of one communion with the righteous. Nevertheless, forasmuch as the Lord saith, The field is the world, (and not, the Church,) we may well understand that the seed of evil doers are the heretics, since in this world they are mingled together with the good, not in one common Communion, but only under one common name of Christian. But they which are of one faith with the good seed, and yet are themselves worthless, may more fitly be likened to straw than to tares, since the straw springeth from one soil and one root with the good ear.

[Lectio9]
However, as touching the net cast into the sea, and enclosing a great multitude of fishes, both bad and good, we may well understand that by the bad are meant Catholics of bad lives. For the sea is one thing whereby we may understand to be signified the world; and the net another, which seemeth to signify our faith, or the Communion of one Church. Between heretics and sinful Catholics there is this difference, that heretics believe a lie, and sinful Catholics believe the truth, but live not as they believe.
&teDeum

[Ant 2]
Sir, didst not thou sow good seed in thy field? * From whence then hath it tares? And he saith unto them: An enemy hath done this.

[Ant 3]
The master saith: Gather ye together first the tares, * and bind them in bundles to burn them; but gather the wheat into my barn.
