[Rank]
Dominica Infra Octavam Nativitatis;;Semiduplex;;5;;ex Sancti/12-25

[Rank] (rubrica 1960 aut rubrica innovata)
Dominica Infra Octavam Nativitatis;;Semiduplex;;5.5;;ex Sancti/12-25

[Rule]
9 lectiones
ex Sancti/12-25
Lectio1 Sancti
Psalmi Dominica

[Capitulum Vespera]
!Gal 4:1-2
v. Brothers: As long as the heir is a child, he differeth nothing from a servant, though he be lord of all; But is under tutors and governors until the time appointed by the father.
$Deo gratias

[Versum 1]
V. The Word was made flesh, alleluia.
R. And dwelt among us, alleluia.

[Ant 1]
While all things were in quiet silence * and that night was in the midst of her swift course, thine Almighty Word, O Lord, leapt down out of thy Royal Throne.

[Oratio]
O Almighty and everlasting God, do Thou order all our actions in conformity with thy good pleasure, that through the name of thy well-beloved Son, we may worthily abound in all good works.
$Qui tecum

[Responsory3](rubrica 1960)
@Sancti/12-25:Responsory4
&Gloria
R. Blessed is that Virgin whose womb was made meet to bear our Lord Christ.

[Lectio4]
From the Sermons of Pope St. Leo (the Great.)
!9th on Christmas.
Dearly beloved brethren, the greatness of God's work, in its breadth and height, passeth the power of man's utterance; and, therefore, when we must needs not keep silence, we find it hard to know what to say. The words of the Prophet: Who shall declare His generation? (Isa. liii. 8) look not only to the Divine, but also to the human birth of Jesus Christ, the Son of God. Faith believeth, but words cannot explain, how the two natures were joined in one Person, and therein we find that we shall never lack matter of praise in Him, Whose abundance ever outrunneth the power of our expression.

[Lectio5]
Therefore let us rejoice, that this mystery of mercy is greater than we can ever speak; and let us feel that it is good for us to fail if we try to express the height and depth of redeeming love. He cometh nearest to the knowledge of the truth, who, the farther he advanceth, seeth all the more clearly that he can never overtake that whereafter he searcheth. For he that imagineth therein that he hath ever attained unto the goal, hath not found that which he seeketh, but hath altogether missed.

[Lectio6]
But lest we should be confounded at the weakness of our mortality, we have help in the words of the Prophets and Evangelists; and they are able so to inflame and teach us that we may see the Birth of the Lord, wherein the Word was made Flesh, not so much as a thing past, as a thing present. The proclamation of the angel to the shepherds who watched their flocks by night, ringeth in our ears also; and for this end are we appointed to rule the Lord's flock, that we may ever keep in our heart the word revealed from heaven, and say unto you, as we do this day Behold, I bring you good tidings of great joy, which shall be to all people; for unto you is born this day, in the city of David, a Saviour, Which is Christ the Lord!

[Lectio7]
From the Holy Gospel according to Luke
!Luke 2:33-40
In that time, his father and mother were wondering at those things which were spoken concerning him. And so on.
_
Homily by St. Ambrose, Bishop (of Milan.)
!Bk. ii on Luke ii
We see that God's abounding grace is poured forth on all by the birth of the Lord, and that the gift of prophecy is not denied to the righteous, but to the unbelieving. Simeon prophesieth that our Lord Jesus Christ is set for the fall and rising again of many in Israel, setting forth that the just and the unjust reap different fruits from the coming of the Saviour; so will it be with us; according to our individual works will the True and Just Judge apportion to us punishment or reward.

[Lectio8]
See, a sword shall pierce through thine own soul also. We have no record or tradition that Mary left this world by suffering a violent death, and the material sword can pierce the body only, and not the soul. Wherefore here we see the wisdom of Mary in that she was not ignorant of the heavenly mysteries. For, the word of God is quick, and powerful, and sharper than any two-edged sword, piercing even to the dividing asunder of soul and spirit, and of the joints and marrow, and is a discerner of the thoughts and intents of the heart for all things are naked and opened unto the eyes of the Son of God, from Whom also the secret things of our conscience are not hidden.

[Responsory8]
R. How is the King of heaven attended? He that containeth the world is laid in a stable;
* Lying in a manger, reigning in heaven.
V. Unto us is born, this day, in the city of David, a Saviour, Which is Christ the Lord.
R. Lying in a manger, reigning in heaven.
&Gloria
R. Lying in a manger, reigning in heaven.

[Lectio9]
There had been a triple prophecy; the prophecy of Simeon had followed the prophecy of the virgin, and the prophecy of the wife; those, namely, of Mary and Elizabeth. And now ought the widow also to prophesy, that no sex nor state might be wanting. And Anna is brought before us with such a title from her widowhood and her life, that we may well believe that she received the grace to announce the Advent of the Redeemer. In our exhortation addressed to widows we have already treated of her gifts at length, and, as we have much matter before us, we will not now again enter on the subject.
&teDeum

[Lectio Prima] (rubrica divino aut rubrica tridentina aut rubrica monastica)
!Gal 4:7
v. Therefore now he is not a servant, but a son. And if a son, an heir also through God.

[Capitulum Sexta]
!Gal 4:4-5
v. But when the fulness of the time was come, God sent his Son, made of a woman, made under the law: That he might redeem them who were under the law: that we might receive the adoption of sons.
$Deo gratias

[Capitulum Nona]
!Gal 4:7
v. Therefore now he is not a servant, but a son. And if a son, an heir also through God.
$Deo gratias

[Ant 3]
And Jesus advanced in wisdom * and age, and grace with God and men.
