[Rank]
Sanctissimi Nominis Jesu;;Duplex class;;5;;

[Rule]
9 lectiones
Psalmi Dominica
Antiphonas horas
Psalm5 Vespera=115
Doxology=Nat

[Ant Vespera]
Whosoever shall call * on the name of the Lord shall be saved.
Holy and terrible * is His Name; the fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom.
Yet will I rejoice * in the Lord I will joy in the God of my salvation.
From the rising of the sun * unto the going down of the same the Lord's Name is to be praised.
I will offer * the sacrifice of thanksgiving, and will call upon the Name of the Lord.

[Capitulum Vespera]
!Phil 2:8-10
v. He humbled himself, becoming obedient unto death, even to the death of the cross. For which cause God also hath exalted him, and hath given him a name which is above all names: That in the name of Jesus every knee should bow, of those that are in heaven, on earth, and under the earth.
$Deo gratias

[Hymnus Vespera]
v. Jesu, the very thought of thee
With sweetness fills my breast;
But sweeter far thy face to see,
And in thy presence rest.
_
Nor voice can sing, nor heart can frame,
Nor can the memory find,
A sweeter sound than thy blest Name,
O Saviour of mankind!
_
O Hope of every contrite heart,
O Joy of all the meek,
To those who fall, how kind Thou art!
How good to those who seek!
_
But what to those who find? Ah! this
Nor tongue nor pen can show:
The love of Jesus, what it is
None but his loved ones know.
_
Jesu, our only joy be Thou,
As Thou our prize wilt be;
Jesu, be Thou our glory now,
And through eternity.
Amen.

[Versum 1]
V. Blessed be the Name of the Lord, alleluia.
R. From this time forth, and for evermore, alleluia.

[Ant 1]
He That is mighty * hath done to me great things, and holy is His Name, alleluia.

[Oratio]
O God, Who hast appointed thine Only-begotten Son to be the Saviour of mankind, and hast commanded that His Name should be called Jesus, mercifully grant that we who here on earth do worship that most Holy Name may be made glad in heaven by His Presence.
$Per eumdem

[Invit]
The Name which shall be called Wonderful, the Name of Jesus is the Name which is above every name. * O come, let us worship Him.

[Hymnus Matutinum]
v. O Jesu, King most wonderful
Thou conqueror renowned,
Thou sweetness most ineffable,
In whom all joys are found!
_
When once Thou visitest the heart,
Then truth begins to shine;
Then earthly vanities depart;
Then kindles love divine.
_
O Jesu, light of all below,
Thou fount of life and fire,
Surpassing all the joys we know,
And all we can desire:
_
May every heart confess thy Name,
And ever thee adore;
And, seeking thee, itself inflame
To seek thee more and more.
_
Thee may our tongues forever bless;
Thee may we love alone;
And ever in our lives express
The image of thine own.
Amen.

[Ant Matutinum]
O Lord our Lord, * how admirable is thy name in the whole earth!;;8
At the Name of Jesus, * let every knee bow, of things in heaven, and things in earth, and things under the earth.;;18
Praise the Lord, * and call upon His Name; remember that His Name is exalted.;;23
V. For thy Name's sake, O Lord, pardon mine iniquity.
R. For it is great.
They shall be mindful * of thy Name, O Lord, unto all generations.;;44
O magnify * the Lord with me, and let us exalt His Name together.;;45
All nations * whom Thou hast made, shall come and worship before thee, O Lord, and shall glorify thy Name.;;86
V. For the glory of thy Name, deliver us, O Lord.
R. And forgive our sins, for thy Name's sake.
Sing unto the Lord, * and bless His Name show forth His salvation from day to day.;;95
According to thy Name, O God, * so is thy praise unto the ends of the earth; thy right hand is full of righteousness.;;96
Sing unto God, * sing praises to His Name; spread a path before Him That rideth upon the heavens the Lord is His Name.;;97
V. Give unto the Lord glory and honour.
R. Give unto the Lord the glory due unto His Name.

[Lectio1]
Lesson from the Acts of the Apostles
!Acts 3:1-8
1 Now Peter and John went up into the temple at the ninth hour of prayer.
2 And a certain man who was lame from his mother's womb, was carried: whom they laid every day at the gate of the temple, which is called Beautiful, that he might ask alms of them that went into the temple.
3 He, when he had seen Peter and John about to go into the temple, asked to receive an alms.
4 But Peter with John fastening his eyes upon him, said: Look upon us.
5 But he looked earnestly upon them, hoping that he should receive something of them.
6 But Peter said: Silver and gold I have none; but what I have, I give thee: In the name of Jesus Christ of Nazareth, arise, and walk.
7 And taking him by the right hand, he lifted him up, and forthwith his feet and soles received strength.
8 And he leaping up, stood, and walked, and went in with them into the temple, walking, and leaping, and praising God.

[Responsory1]
R. Behold, thou shalt conceive, and bring forth a Son, and shalt call His Name Jesus
* For He shall save His people from their sins.
V. His Name was called Jesus, which was so named of the Angel, before He was conceived in the womb.
R. For He shall save His people from their sins.

[Lectio2]
!Acts 3:9-16
9 And all the people saw him walking and praising God.
10 And they knew him, that it was he who sat begging alms at the Beautiful gate of the temple: and they were filled with wonder and amazement at that which had happened to him.
11 And as he held Peter and John, all the people ran to them to the porch which is called Solomon's, greatly wondering.
12 But Peter seeing, made answer to the people: Ye men of Israel, why wonder you at this? or why look you upon us, as if by our strength or power we had made this man to walk?
13 The God of Abraham, and the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob, the God of our fathers, hath glorified his Son Jesus, whom you indeed delivered up and denied before the face of Pilate, when he judged he should be released.
14 But you denied the Holy One and the Just, and desired a murderer to be granted unto you.
15 But the author of life you killed, whom God hath raised from the dead, of which we are witnesses.
16 And in the faith of his name, this man, whom you have seen and known, hath his name strengthened; and the faith which is by him, hath given this perfect soundness in the sight of you all.

[Responsory2]
R. Blessed is thy Name, O God of our fathers, for in wrath Thou wilt remember mercy.
* And in the time of tribulation Thou forgivest the sins of them that call upon thee.
V. And blessed be thy glorious Name for ever, O Thou Who only doest wondrous things!
R. And in the time of tribulation Thou forgivest the sins of them that call upon thee.

[Lectio3]
!Acts 4:5-12
5 And it came to pass on the morrow, that their princes, and ancients, and scribes, were gathered together in Jerusalem;
6 And Annas the high priest, and Caiphas, and John, and Alexander, and as many as were of the kindred of the high priest.
7 And setting them in the midst, they asked: By what power, or by what name, have you done this?
8 Then Peter, filled with the Holy Ghost, said to them: Ye princes of the people, and ancients, hear:
9 If we this day are examined concerning the good deed done to the infirm man, by what means he hath been made whole:
10 Be it known to you all, and to all the people of Israel, that by the name of our Lord Jesus Christ of Nazareth, whom you crucified, whom God hath raised from the dead, even by him this man standeth here before you whole.
11 This is the stone which was rejected by you the builders, which is become the head of the corner.
12 Neither is there salvation in any other. For there is no other name under heaven given to men, whereby we must be saved.

[Responsory3]
R. I will praise thy Name continually;
* Yea, I will praise it with thanksgiving.
V. I will be glad and rejoice in thee I will sing praise to thy Name, O Thou Most High.
R. Yea, I will praise it with thanksgiving.
&Gloria
R. Yea, I will praise it with thanksgiving.

[Lectio4]
From the Sermons of St. Bernard, Abbot (of Clairvaux) 
!1st on the Song of Songs
It is not idly that the Holy Ghost likeneth the Name of the Bridegroom to oil, when He maketh the Bride say to the Bridegroom: thy Name is as oil poured forth. Oil indeed giveth light, meat, and unction. It feedeth fire, it nourisheth the flesh, it sootheth pain; it is light, food, and healing. Behold, Thus also is the Name of the Bridegroom. To preach it, is to give light; to think of it, is to feed the soul; to call on it, is to win grace and unction. Let us take it point by point. What, thinkest thou, hath made the light of faith so suddenly and so brightly to shine in the whole world but the preaching of the Name of Jesus? Is it not in the light of this Name that God hath called us into His marvellous light, even that light wherewith we being enlightened, and in His light seeing light, Paul saith truly of us: Ye were sometimes darkness, but now are ye light in the Lord. 

[Responsory4]
R. Let them that know thy Name put their trust in thee
* For Thou, Lord, hast not forsaken them that seek thee.
V. Arise, O Lord, help us, and redeem us for thy Name's sake.
R. For Thou, Lord, hast not forsaken them that seek thee.

[Lectio5]
This is the Name which the Apostle was commanded to bear before Gentiles, and kings, and the children of Israel, the Name which he bore as a light to enlighten his people, crying everywhere The night is far spent, the day is at hand; let us therefore cast off the works of darkness, and let us put on the armour of light, let us walk honestly as in the dayligth, He pointed out to all that candle set upon a candlestick, preaching in every place Jesus and Him crucified. How did that Name shine forth and dazzle every eye that beheld it, when it came like lightning out of the mouth of Peter to give bodily strength to the feet of the lame man, and to clear the sight of many a blind soul? Cast he not fire when he said: In the Name of Jesus Christ of Nazareth, rise up and walk?

[Responsory5]
R. Let us praise thy great Name,
* For it is terrible and holy.
V. Some trust in chariots, and some in horses, but we will call upon the Name of the Lord our God.
R. For it is terrible and holy.

[Lectio6]
The Name of Jesus is not a Name of light only, but it is meat also. Dost thou ever call it to mind, and remain unstrengthened? Is there anything like it to enrich the soul of him that thinketh of it? What is there like it to restore the weakened senses, to fortify strength, to give birth to good lives and pure affections? The soul is fed on husks if that whereon it feedeth lack seasoning with this salt. If thou writest, thou hast no meaning for me if I read not of Jesus there. If thou preach, or dispute, thou hast no meaning for me if I hear not of Jesus there. The mention of Jesus is honey in the mouth, music in the ear, and gladness in the heart. It is our healing too. Is any sorrowful among us? Let the thought of Jesus come into his heart, and spring to his mouth. Behold, when the day of that Name beginneth to break, every cloud will flee away, and there will be a great calm. Doth any fall into sin? Doth any draw nigh to an hopeless death? And if he but call on the life-giving Name of Jesus, will he not draw the breath of a new life again?

[Responsory6]
R. O Lord, let all those that put their trust in thee rejoice, let them ever shout for joy because Thou dwellest in them
* Let them also that love thy Name be joyful in thee.
V. They shall walk, O Lord, in the light of thy countenance; and in thy Name shall they rejoice all the day.
R. Let them also that love thy Name be joyful in thee.
&Gloria
R. Let them also that love thy Name be joyful in thee.

[Lectio7]
From the Holy Gospel according to Luke
!Luke 2:21
In that time: when eight days were accomplished, that the child should be circumcised, his name was called Jesus, which was called by the angel, before he was conceived in the womb. And so on.
_
Homily by St. Bernard, Abbot (of Clairvaux)
!1st on the Circumcision
Behold a mystery, great and full of wonder! The Child is circumcised, and His Name is called Jesus. Why are these two things thus mentioned together? It would seem that circumcision should rather be for the saved than for the Saviour; that the Saviour ought rather to be Circumciser than circumcised. But behold here the Mediator between God and men, how even from His childhood He joineth the things of the Highest to the things of the lowest, the things of God to the things of men. He is born of a woman, but her womb is made fruitful without the loss of the flower of her virginity. He is wrapped in swaddling-bands, but these swaddling-bands are a theme for the jubilation of angels. He is laid in a manger, but a bright star standeth in heaven over the place. So also in His circumcision, the ceremony gave proof of the reality of the Manhood which He had taken, and that Name which is above every name proclaimed the glory of His Blessed Majesty. As very son of Abraham He underwent circumcision; He assumed the Name of Jesus as very Son of God.

[Responsory7]
R. Sorrow and trouble did I find.
* Then called I upon the Name of the Lord.
V. The Name of the Lord is a strong tower; I trusted in Him and I am helped.
R. Then called I upon the Name of the Lord.

[Lectio8]
Why Jesus beareth not that Name as others have borne it before Him, as a vain and empty title. It is not in Him the shadow of a great Name, but the very meaning of that Name. That His Name was revealed from heaven, is attested by the Evangelist, where it is written, Which was so named of the Angel before He was conceived in the womb. After Jesus was born, men called Him Jesus, but angels called Him Jesus, before He was conceived in the womb. The One Lord is the Saviour of angels and of men; of men, since His Incarnation; of angels, from the beginning of their creation. His Name, saith the Evangelist, was called Jesus, which was so named of the Angel before He was conceived in the womb. In the mouth therefore of two or three witnesses is every word established; and that word whereof the Prophet spoke as cut short, is set forth at length in the Gospel: the Word made Flesh.

[Responsory8]
R. O Lord, I will wait on thy Name.
* For it is good before thy Saints.
V. To give thanks unto thy Holy Name, and to triumph in thy praise.
R. For it is good before thy Saints.
&Gloria
R. For it is good before thy Saints.

[Lectio9]
!2nd on the Circumcision
It is no wonder that it should be at His circumcision that the Name of Jesus (which is, being interpreted, Saviour) is given to the Child Who is born unto us, for it was then that He for the first time shed that sinless Blood Which is the mean whereby He hath chosen to work out our salvation. It is no matter for the speculation of Christians why the Lord Christ was pleased to be circumcised. He was circumcised for the same reason for which He was born, and for which He suffered. Neither one nor the other was for Himself, but all for the sake of the elect. He was not born in sin; He was not circumcised to separate Him from sin; neither did He die for sins of His own, but for ours. Which was so named of the Angel before He was conceived in the womb. The Angel indeed gave Him that title of Saviour, but not for the first time. Saviour is His Name from everlasting; He hath it of His own proper nature to save. This title He hath in Himself, not by the gift of anything that He hath made, be it man or Angel.
&teDeum

[Ant Laudes]
Thy Name is as oil * poured forth, therefore do the virgins love thee.
Know ye that the Lord He is God, * and His Name endureth for ever.
My soul thirsteth * for thy Holy Name, O Lord.
Blessed * is the Holy Name of thy glory, and worthy to be praised, and exalted above all for ever.
Young men and maidens, * old men and children, praise the Name of the Lord, for His Name alone is exalted.

[Hymnus Laudes]
v. O Jesu, Thou the Beauty art
Of Angel worlds above;
Thy name is music to the heart,
Enchanting it with love.
_
Celestial Sweetness unalloyed!
Who eat thee hunger still;
Who drink of thee still feel a void,
Which naught but Thou can fill.
_
O my sweet Jesu! hear the sigh,
Which unto thee I send;
To thee mine inmost spirit cries
My being's hope and end!
_
Stay with us, Lord, and with thy light
Illume the soul's abyss;
Scatter the darkness of our night,
And fill the world with bliss.
_
O Jesu, spotless Virgin flower,
Our life and joy: to thee
Be praise, beatitude, and power,
Through all eternity.
Amen.

[Versum 2]
V. Our help is in the Name of the Lord.
R. Who made heaven and earth.

[Ant 2]
He gave Himself * to deliver His people, and to get Himself an everlasting Name. Alleluia.

[Lectio Prima]
!Col 3:17
v. All whatsoever you do in word or in work, do all in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ, giving thanks to God and the Father by him.

[Responsory Tertia]
R.br. Blessed be the Name of the Lord, * Alleluia, alleluia.
R. Blessed be the Name of the Lord, * Alleluia, alleluia.
V. From this time forth, and for evermore.
R. Alleluia, alleluia.
&Gloria
R. Blessed be the Name of the Lord, * Alleluia, alleluia.
_
V. Give unto the Lord glory and honour, alleluia.
R. Give unto the Lord the glory due unto His Name, alleluia.

[Capitulum Sexta]
!Phil 2:10-11
v. That in the name of Jesus every knee should bow, of those that are in heaven, on earth, and under the earth: And that every tongue should confess that the Lord Jesus Christ is in the glory of God the Father.
$Deo gratias

[Responsory Sexta]
R.br. Give unto the Lord glory and honour, * Alleluia, alleluia.
R. Give unto the Lord glory and honour, * Alleluia, alleluia.
V. Give unto the Lord the glory due unto His Name.
R. Alleluia, alleluia.
&Gloria
R. Give unto the Lord glory and honour, * Alleluia, alleluia.
_
V. O magnify the Lord with me, alleluia.
R. And let us exalt His Name together, alleluia.

[Responsory Nona]
R.br. O magnify the Lord with me, * Alleluia, alleluia.
R. O magnify the Lord with me, * Alleluia, alleluia.
V. And let us exalt His Name together.
R. Alleluia, alleluia.
&Gloria
R. O magnify the Lord with me, * Alleluia, alleluia.
_
V. Our help is in the Name of the Lord, alleluia.
R. Who made heaven and earth, alleluia.

[Ant 3]
Thou shalt call His Name Jesus, * for He shall save His people from their sins, alleluia.
