 [Rank]
Feria Sexta infra Hebdomadam IV post Octavam Paschae;;Feria;;1

[Rule]
Oratio Dominica
Una Antiphona
Feria Te Deum

[Lectio1]
Lesson from the letter of St James the Apostle
!Jas 4:1-4
1 From whence are wars and contentions among you? Are they not hence, from your concupiscences, which war in your members?
2 You covet, and have not: you kill, and envy, and can not obtain. You contend and war, and you have not, because you ask not.
3 You ask, and receive not; because you ask amiss: that you may consume it on your concupiscences.
4 Adulterers, know you not that the friendship of this world is the enemy of God? Whosoever therefore will be a friend of this world, becometh an enemy of God.

[Responsory1]
R. Bless ye God in the congregations Alleluia.
* Even the Lord, ye that are of the fountains of Israel Alleluia, Alleluia.
V. Sing forth the honour of His Name, make His praise glorious.
R. Even the Lord, ye that are of the fountains of Israel Alleluia, Alleluia.

[Lectio2]
!Jas 4:5-10
5 Or do you think that the scripture saith in vain: To envy doth the spirit covet which dwelleth in you?
6 But he giveth greater grace. Wherefore he saith: God resisteth the proud, and giveth grace to the humble.
7 Be subject therefore to God, but resist the devil, and he will fly from you.
8 Draw nigh to God, and he will draw nigh to you. Cleanse your hands, ye sinners: and purify your hearts, ye double minded.
9 Be afflicted, and mourn, and weep: let your laughter be turned into mourning, and your joy into sorrow.
10 Be humbled in the sight of the Lord, and he will exalt you.

[Responsory2]
R. With my whole heart Alleluia have I sought thee Alleluia.
* O let me not wander from thy commandments Alleluia, Alleluia.
V. Blessed art Thou, O Lord teach me thy statutes.
R. O let me not wander from thy commandments Alleluia, Alleluia.
&Gloria
R. O let me not wander from thy commandments Alleluia, Alleluia.

[Lectio3]
!Jas 4:11-15
11 Detract not one another, my brethren. He that detracteth his brother, or he that judgeth his brother, detracteth the law, and judgeth the law. But if thou judge the law, thou art not a doer of the law, but a judge.
12 There is one lawgiver, and judge, that is able to destroy and to deliver.
13 But who art thou that judgest thy neighbour? Behold, now you that say: Today or tomorrow we will go into such a city, and there we will spend a year, and will traffic, and make our gain.
14 Whereas you know not what shall be on the morrow.
15 For what is your life? It is a vapour which appeareth for a little while, and afterwards shall vanish away. For that you should say: If the Lord will, and if we shall live, we will do this or that.

[Responsory3]
R. Sing us a song Alleluia.
* How shall we sing the Lord's song in a strange land Alleluia, Alleluia.
V. There they that carried us away captive required of us a song.
R. How shall we sing the Lord's song in a strange land Alleluia, Alleluia.
&Gloria
R. How shall we sing the Lord's song in a strange land Alleluia, Alleluia.

[Ant 2]
These are the words * which I spake unto you, while I was with you. Alleluia.

[Ant 3]
I go My way to Him That sent Me, * and none of you asketh Me: Whither goest Thou, Alleluia, Alleluia.

