[Rank]
Dominica Pentecostes;;Duplex I Classis cum Octava privilegiata I ordinis;;7

[Rule]
1 Nocturn
Psalmi Dominica;
Antiphonas horas
Hymnus Tertia
Prima=53

[Ant Vespera]
When the day of Pentecost was fully come * they were all with one accord in one place, alleluia.
The Spirit of the Lord * filleth the world, alleluia.
They were all filled * with the Holy Ghost, and began to speak, alleluia, alleluia.
See ye fountains, * and all that move in the waters, ascribe ye praise to God, alleluia.
The Apostles spoke in diverse tongues * the wonderful works of God, alleluia, alleluia, alleluia.;;116

[Capitulum Vespera]
!Acts 2:1-2
v. When the day of Pentecost was fully come, the disciples were all with one accord in one place and suddenly there came a sound from heaven, as of a rushing mighty wind and it filled all the house where they were sitting.
$Deo gratias

[Hymnus Vespera]
!The first verse of the following hymn is said genuflecting.
v. Creator-Spirit, all-divine,
Come, visit every soul of thine,
And fill with thy celestial flame
The hearts which thou thyself didst frame.
_
O gift of God, thine is the sweet
Consoling name of Paraclete
And spring of life and fire and love
And unction flowing from above.
_
The mystic sevenfold gifts are thine,
Finger of God's right hand divine;
The Father's promise sent to teach
The tongue a rich and heavenly speech.
_
Kindle with fire brought from above
Each sense, and fill our hearts with love;
And grant our flesh, so weak and frail,
The strength of thine which cannot fail.
_
Drive far away our deadly foe,
And grant us thy true peace to know;
So we, led by thy guidance still,
May safely pass through every ill.
_
To us, through thee, the grace be shown
To know the Father and the Son;
And Spirit of them both, may we
Forever rest our faith in thee.
_
To Sire and Son be praises meet,
And to the Holy Paraclete;
And may Christ send us from above
That Holy Spirit's gift of love.
Amen

[Versum 1]
V. They were all filled with the Holy Ghost, alleluia.
R. And began to speak, alleluia.

[Ant 1]
I will not leave you orphans, * alleluia; I go away, and come again unto you, alleluia, and your heart shall rejoice, alleluia.

[Oratio]
O God, Who on this day didst teach the hearts of thy faithful people, by the sending to them the light of thine Holy Spirit, grant us by the same Spirit to have a right judgment in all things, and evermore to rejoice in His holy comfort.
$Per Dominum eiusdem

[Invit]
Alleluia, the Spirit of the Lord filleth the world: * O come, let us worship Him, alleluia.

[Hymnus Matutinum]
v. Now Christ, ascending whence he came,
Had mounted o'er the starry frame,
The Holy Ghost on man below,
The Father's promise, to bestow.
_
The solemn time was drawing nigh,
Replete with heav'nly mystery,
On seven days' sevenfold circles borne,
That first and blessèd Whitsun-morn.
_
When the third hour shone all around,
There came a rushing mighty sound,
And told the Apostles, while in prayer,
That, as was promised, God was there.
_
Forth from the Father's light it came,
That beautiful and kindly flame:
To fill with fervour of his word
The spirits faithful to their Lord.
_
With joy the Apostles' breasts are fired,
By God the Holy Ghost inspired:
And straight, in diverse kinds of speech,
The wondrous works of God they preach.
_
To men of every race they speak,
Alike barbarian, Roman, Greek:
From the same lips, with awe and fear,
All men their native accents hear.
_
But Juda's sons, e'en faithless yet,
With mad infuriate rage beset,
To mock Christ's followers combine,
As drunken all with new-made wine.
_
When lo! with signs and mighty deeds,
Stands Peter in the midst, and pleads;
Confounding their malignant lie
By Joel's ancient prophecy.
_
To God the Father let us sing,
To God the Son, our risen King,
And equally let us adore
The Spirit, God forevermore.
Amen.

[Ant Matutinum]
Suddenly there came a sound from heaven * as of a rushing mighty wind, alleluia, alleluia.;;47
Strengthen, O God, that which Thou hast wrought for us, * because of thy holy Temple at Jerusalem, alleluia, alleluia.;;67
Send forth thy Spirit, and they shall be created * and Thou shalt renew the face of the earth, alleluia, alleluia.;;103
V. The Spirit of the Lord filleth the world, alleluia.
R. And That Which containeth all things hath knowledge of the voice, alleluia.

[Lectio1]
Continuation of the Holy Gospel according to John
!John 14:13-31
At that time, Jesus said unto His disciples: If a man love Me, He will keep My word, and My Father will love him, and We will come unto him, and make Our abode with him. And so on.
_
Homily by Pope St. Gregory the Great
!30th on the Gospels
Dearly beloved brethren, our best way will be to run briefly through the words which have been read from the Holy Gospel, and thereafter rest for a while quietly gazing upon the solemn subject of this great Festival. This is the day whereon "suddenly there came a sound from heaven," and the Holy Ghost descended upon the Apostles, and, for fleshly minds, gave them minds wherein the love of God was shed abroad and, while without "there appeared unto them cloven tongues, like as of fire, and it sat upon each of them," within, their hearts were enkindled. While they received the visible presence of God in the form of fire, the flames of His love enwrapped them. The Holy Ghost Himself is love whence it is that John saith "God is love." Whosoever therefore loveth God with all his soul, already hath obtained Him Whom he loveth, for no man is able to love God, if He have not gained Him Whom he loveth.

[Responsory1]
R. When the day of Pentecost was fully come, they were all with one accord in one place, alleluia, and suddenly there came a sound from heaven, alleluia.
* as of a mighty rushing wind, and it filled all the house, alleluia, alleluia.
V. Where the disciples were assembled for fear of the Jews, there suddenly came upon them a sound from heaven.
R. As of a rushing mighty wind, and it filled all the house, alleluia, alleluia.

[Lectio2]
But, behold, now, if I shall ask any one of you whether he loveth God, he will answer with all boldness and quietness of spirit: "I do love him." But at the very beginning of this day's Lesson from the Gospel, ye have heard what the Truth saith: "If a man love Me, he will keep My word." The test, then, of love, is whether it is showed by works. Hence the same John hath said in his Epistle (I. iv. 20, v. 3): "If a man say, I love God, and keepeth not His commandments, He is a liar." Then do we indeed love God, and keep His commandments, if we deny ourselves the gratification of our appetites. Whosoever still wandereth after unlawful desires, such an one plainly loveth not God, for he saith, Nay, to that which God willeth.

[Responsory2]
R. They were all filled with the Holy Ghost, and began to speak, as the Holy Ghost gave them utterance;
* And the multitude came together, saying: Alleluia.
V. The Apostles spoke in diverse tongues the wonderful works of God.
R. And the multitude came together, saying: Alleluia.
&Gloria
R. And the multitude came together, saying: Alleluia.

[Lectio3]
"And My Father will love him, and We will come unto him, and make Our abode with him." O my dearly beloved brethren, think what a dignity is that, to have God abiding as a guest in our heart Surely if some rich man or some powerful friend were to come into our house, we would hasten to have our whole house cleaned, lest, perchance, when he came in, he should see aught to displease his eye. So let him that would make his mind an abode for God, cleanse it from all the filth of works of iniquity. Lo, again, what saith the Truth: "We will come unto him, and make Our abode with him." There are some hearts whereunto God cometh, but maketh not His abode therein with a certain pricking they feel His Presence, but in time of temptation they forget that which hath pricked them and so they turn again to work unrighteousness, even as though they had never repented.
&teDeum

[Hymnus Laudes]
v. Round roll the weeks our hearts to greet,
With blissful joy returning;
For lo! the Holy Paraclete
On twelve bright brows sits burning:
_
With quivering flame he lights on each,
In fashion like a tongue, to teach
That eloquent they are of speech,
Their hearts with true love yearning.
_
While with all tongues they speak to all,
The nations deem them maddened,
And drunk with wine the prophets call,
Whom God's good Spirit gladdened;
_
A marvel this—in mystery done—
The holy paschaltide outrun,
By numbers told, whose reckoning won
Remission for the saddened.
_
O God most Holy, thee we pray,
With reverent brow low bending,
Grant us the Spirit's gifts today
The gifts from heaven descending;
_
And, since, thy grace hath deigned to bide
Within our breasts once sanctified,
Deign, Lord, to cast our sins aside,
Henceforth calm seasons sending.
_
To God the Father, laud and praise,
Praise to the Son be given;
Praise to the Spirit of all grace,
The fount of graces seven—
_
As was of old, all worlds before,
Is now and shall be evermore,
When time and change are spent and o'er
All praise in earth and heaven.
Amen.

[Ant 2]
Receive ye the Holy Ghost; * whoseoever sins ye remit, they are remitted unto them, alleluia.

[Lectio Prima]
!Acts 2:11
v. Jews also, and Proselytes, Cretes and Arabians, we do hear them speak in our tongues the wonderful works of God.

[Responsory Tertia]
R.br. The Spirit of the Lord filleth the world. * Alleluia, Alleluia.
R. The Spirit of the Lord filleth the world. * Alleluia, Alleluia.
V. And That Which containeth all things hath knowledge of the voice.
R. Alleluia, Alleluia.
&Gloria
R. The Spirit of the Lord filleth the world. * Alleluia, Alleluia.
_
V. The Comforter, Which is the Holy Ghost, alleluia.
R. He shall teach you all things, alleluia.

[Capitulum Sexta]
!Acts 2:6
v. When this was noised abroad, the multitude came together, and were confounded, because that every man heard them speak in his own language.
$Deo gratias

[Responsory Sexta]
R.br. The Comforter, Which is the Holy Ghost. * Alleluia, Alleluia.
R. The Comforter, Which is the Holy Ghost. * Alleluia, Alleluia.
V. He shall teach you all things.
R. Alleluia, Alleluia.
&Gloria
R. The Comforter, Which is the Holy Ghost. * Alleluia, Alleluia.
_
V. They were all filled with the Holy Ghost, alleluia.
R. And began to speak, alleluia.

[Responsory Nona]
R.br. They were all filled with the Holy Ghost. * Alleluia, Alleluia.
R. They were all filled with the Holy Ghost. * Alleluia, Alleluia.
V. And began to speak.
R. Alleluia, Alleluia.
&Gloria
R. They were all filled with the Holy Ghost. * Alleluia, Alleluia.
_
V. The Apostles spoke in diverse tongues, alleluia.
R. The wonderful works of God, alleluia.

[Versum 3]
V. The Apostles spoke in diverse tongues, alleluia.
R. The wonderful works of God, alleluia.

[Ant 3]
This day * the day of Pentecost is fully come, alleluia. This day the Holy Ghost appeared in fire unto the disciples, and gave unto them gifts of grace. He sent them into all the world, to preach and to testify that he who believeth, and is baptized, shall be saved, alleluia.
