[Officium]
Feria Quinta infra Hebdomadam III post Octavam Paschae

[Lectio1]
Lesson from the book of Revelation
!Rev 15:1-4
1 And I saw another sign in heaven, great and wonderful: seven angels having the seven last plagues. For in them is filled up the wrath of God.
2 And I saw as it were a sea of glass mingled with fire, and them that had overcome the beast, and his image, and the number of his name, standing on the sea of glass, having the harps of God:
3 And singing the canticle of Moses, the servant of God, and the canticle of the Lamb, saying: Great and wonderful are thy works, O Lord God Almighty; just and true are thy ways, O King of ages.
4 Who shall not fear thee, O Lord, and magnify thy name? For thou only art holy: for all nations shall come, and shall adore in thy sight, because thy judgments are manifest.

[Lectio2]
!Rev 15:5-8
5 And after these things I looked; and behold, the temple of the tabernacle of the testimony in heaven was opened:
6 And the seven angels came out of the temple, having the seven plagues, clothed with clean and white linen, and girt about the breasts with golden girdles.
7 And one of the four living creatures gave to the seven angels seven golden vials, full of the wrath of God, who liveth for ever and ever.
8 And the temple was filled with smoke from the majesty of God, and from his power; and no man was able to enter into the temple, till the seven plagues of the seven angels were fulfilled.

[Responsory2]
R. As the vine brought I forth pleasant savour, Alleluia.
* Come unto me, all ye that be desirous of me, and fill yourselves with my fruits. Alleluia, Alleluia.
V. In me is the favour of the way and the truth in me is the hope of life and strength.
R. Come unto me, all ye that be desirous of me, and fill yourselves with my fruits. Alleluia, Alleluia.
&Gloria
R. Come unto me, all ye that be desirous of me, and fill yourselves with my fruits. Alleluia, Alleluia.

[Lectio3]
!Rev 16:1-6
1 And I heard a great voice out of the temple, saying to the seven angels: Go, and pour out the seven vials of the wrath of God upon the earth.
2 And the first went, and poured out his vial upon the earth, and there fell a sore and grievous wound upon men, who had the character of the beast; and upon them that adored the image thereof.
3 And the second angel poured out his vial upon the sea, and there came blood as it were of a dead man; and every living soul died in the sea.
4 And the third poured out his vial upon the rivers and the fountains of waters; and there was made blood.
5 And I heard the angel of the waters saying: Thou art just, O Lord, who art, and who wast, the Holy One, because thou hast judged these things:
6 For they have shed the blood of saints and prophets, and thou hast given them blood to drink; for they are worthy.

[Ant 2]
And He went in with them. * And it came to pass, as He sat at meat with them, He took bread, and blessed it and brake, and gave to them. Alleluia, Alleluia.

[Ant 3]
Amen, Amen, I say unto you, that I will see you again, * am your heart shall rejoice, and your jo; no man taketh from you. Alleluia.
