[Rank]
Die V infra octavam Paschae;;Semiduplex I classis;;6;;ex Pasc0-0

[Rule]
ex Pasc0-0;
1 nocturn;
Omit Hymnus Preces Suffragium;
Minores sine Antiphona;
Capitulum Versum 2;
Psalmi Dominica;

[Lectio1]
Continuation of the Holy Gospel according to John
!John 20:11-18
At that time: But Mary stood at the sepulchre without, weeping. Now as she was weeping, she stooped down, and looked into the sepulchre. And so forth.
_
Homily by Pope St. Gregory (the Great.)
!25th on the Gospels
Mary Magdalene, a woman in the city, who was a sinner, through love of the truth washed away by her tears the befoulment of her sin, and the word of the Truth was fulfilled which He spake: Her sins, which are many, are forgiven: for she loved much. (Luke vii. 47.) She that had remained cold while she sinned, became burning when she loved. For after that she had been to the Sepulchre, and had not found there the Body of the Lord, and had believed that It had been taken away, and had told His disciples, they came and saw, and thought it was even as the woman had said, and it is written: Then the disciples went away again unto their own home but Mary stood without at the sepulchre, weeping.

[Responsory1]
R. They have taken away my Lord, and I know not where they have laid Him. The Angels say unto her: Woman, why weepest thou? He is risen, as He said.
* He goeth before you into Galilee; there shall ye see Him, alleluia, alleluia.
V. And as she wept, she stooped down and looked into the Sepulchre, and saw two Angels in white, sitting; and they say unto her:
R. He goeth before you into Galilee; there shall ye see Him, alleluia, alleluia.

[Lectio2]
In connection with this matter, we ought to ponder what great store of love there was in that woman's heart, who, when even His disciples were gone away, could not tear herself from the grave of the Lord. She sought Him Whom she had not found there, and as she sought, she wept, and the fire of love in her heart yearned after Him, Who she believed had been taken away. And so it came to pass that she, who had lingered to seek Him, was the only one who then saw Him, since the back-bone of a good work is endurance, and the voice of the Truth Himself hath said: He that endureth to the end shall be saved. (Matth. x. 22; xxiv. 13.)

[Responsory2]
R. Rejoice with me, all ye that love the Lord: for I sought Him and He hath appeared unto me;
* And while as I was weeping at the Sepulchre, I saw the Lord, alleluia, alleluia.
V. When His disciples were gone away, I tarried still; and the fire of love in mine heart glowed for Him.
R. And while as I was weeping at the Sepulchre, I saw the Lord, alleluia, alleluia.
&Gloria
R. And while as I was weeping at the Sepulchre, I saw the Lord, alleluia, alleluia.

[Lectio3]
As Mary wept there, she stooped down and looked into the Sepulchre. It was but a little while and she had seen how the Sepulchre was empty, and had told that the Lord was taken away. Why then should she stoop down and look in again? But she loved Him so well, that one look was not enough; the energy of her affection constrained her to search again and again. She began by searching and not finding; but she endured in her search, and, behold, it came to pass that she found. And this was done that our own longings for Christ's presence might be taught to expand, and know that as they expand they will meet with Him to Whom they aspire.
&teDeum

[Ant 2]
Mary stood without at the Sepulchre weeping, * and saw two Angels in white, sitting, and the napkin that had been about the Head of Jesus, alleluia.

[Oratio]
O God, Who dost make all nations, how diverse soever they be, to become one family in giving of praise to thy Name, grant unto all them that are born again in the fountain of baptism to live ever in oneness of faith, and godliness of works.
$Per Dominum

[Ant 3]
They have taken away my Lord, * and I know not where they have laid Him: if thou have borne Him hence, tell me, alleluia, and I will take Him away, alleluia.