[Rank]
Die IV infra octavam Paschae;;Semiduplex I classis;;6;;ex Pasc0-0

[Rule]
ex Pasc0-0;
1 nocturn;
Omit Hymnus Preces Suffragium;
Minores sine Antiphona;
Capitulum Versum 2;
Psalmi Dominica;

[Ant Matutinum]
@Tempora/Pasc0-0::s/^V\..*//sm
V. The disciples therefore were glad, alleluia.
R. When they saw the Lord, alleluia.

[Lectio1]
Continuation of the Holy Gospel according to John
!John 21:1-14
At that time: After this, Jesus showed himself again to the disciples at the sea~
of Tiberias. And he showed himself after this manner. There were together Simon Peter, and Thomas, who is called Didymus, And so forth.
_
Homily by Pope St. Gregory (the Great.)
!24th on the Gospels
Dearly beloved brethren, the portion of the Holy Gospel which hath but now been read in your ears, knocketh loudly at the door of your heart, with a certain question, the answer whereto calleth for thought. This same question is: Wherefore did Peter, who had before his conversion been a fisher, wherefore did he, after his conversion, again go a-fishing? since the Truth hath said: No man, having put his hand to the plough, and looking back, is fit for the kingdom of God? (Luke ix. 62.) Wherefore did Peter return to that which he had left? But we thought we see the answer to his question. The trade which was harmless before his conversion, did not become harmful because he had been inverted.

[Responsory1]
R. Behold, the Lion of the tribe of Judah, the Root of David, hath prevailed to open the Book, and to loose the seven seals thereof.
* Alleluia, alleluia, alleluia.
V. Worthy is the Lamb That was slain to receive power, and riches, in wisdom, and strength, and honour, and glory, and blessing.
R. Alleluia, alleluia, alleluia.

[Lectio2]
We know that Peter had been a fisherman, and Matthew a publican, and that Peter after his conversion went back to his fishing, but Matthew did not return to the receipt of custom. It is one thing to seek a livelihood by fishing, and another to amass money by farming of taxes. There are many kinds of business in which it is difficult or impossible to be engaged without committing sin, and to such kinds of business as these, he which hath once been converted must not again betake himself.

[Responsory2]
R. I am the True Vine, and ye are the branches;
* He that abideth in Me, and I in him, the same bringeth forth much fruit, alleluia, alleluia.
V. As the Father hath loved Me, so have I loved you.
R. He that abideth in Me, and I in him, the same bringeth forth much fruit, alleluia, alleluia.
&Gloria
R. He that abideth in Me, and I in him, the same bringeth forth much fruit, alleluia, alleluia.

[Lectio3]
It may likewise be asked why, when the disciples were toiling in the sea, the Lord, after His Resurrection, stood on the shore, whereas, before His Resurrection, He had walked on the waves before them all. The reason of this is quickly known if we will think of the end which it then served. The sea is a figure of this present world, tossed to and fro by changing fortune, and continually ebbing and flowing with the diverse tides of life. The stableness of the shore is an image of the never-ending rest of the eternal home. The disciples therefore, for that they were yet tossed to and fro upon the waves of a dying life, were toiling in the sea, but He our Redeemer, Who had already laid aside that which in this body is subject to corruption, and had risen again from the dead, He stood upon the shore.
&teDeum

[Ant 2]
Cast the net on the right side of the ship, * and ye shall find, alleluia.

[Oratio]
O God, Who dost every year fill us with holy gladness for the rising-again of the Lord, mercifully grant that these Feast-days which we are now keeping here in time, may be to us a mean whereby in the end we may worthily attain unto those pleasures which are at thy right hand for evermore.
$Per eumdem

[Ant 3]
Jesus saith * unto His disciples: Bring of the fish which ye have now caught. Simon Peter went up, and drew the net to land, full of great fishes, alleluia.