[Rank]
Die II infra octavam Paschae;;Duplex I classis;;7;;ex Pasc0-0

[Rule]
ex Pasc0-0;
1 nocturn;
Omit Hymnus Preces Suffragium Commemoratio;
Minores sine Antiphona;
Capitulum Versum 2;
Psalmi Dominica;

[Lectio1]
Continuation of the Holy Gospel according to Luke
!Luke 24:13-35
And behold, two of them went, the same day, to a town which was sixty furlongs from Jerusalem, named Emmaus. And so forth.
_
Homily by Pope St. Gregory (the Great)
!23rd on the Gospels
Dearly beloved brethren, ye hear, how that while two of His disciples walked together in the way, not believing in His Resurrection, but talking, together concerning Him, the Lord manifested Himself unto them, but yet held their eyes that they should not know Him. This holding of the eyes of their body, wrought by the Lord, was a figure of the spiritual veil which was yet upon the eyes of their heart. For in their heart they loved and yet doubted: even as the Lord drew near to them outwardly, but showed not Who He was. To them that talked together of Him, He revealed His immediate presence; but hid, from them that doubted, the knowledge of His Person.

[Responsory1]
R. Mary Magdalene and the other Mary went very early to the sepulchre.
* That Jesus whom ye seek, is not here: for He is risen, as He said: He goeth before you into Galilee; there shall ye see Him, alleluia, alleluia.
V. And very early in the morning, the first day of the week, they came unto the sepulchre, at the rising of the sun; and, entering into the sepulchre, they saw a young man sitting upon the right side, who saith unto them:
R. That Jesus Whom ye seek is not here: for He is risen, as He said: He goeth before you into Galilee: there shall ye see Him, alleluia, alleluia.

[Lectio2]
He spoke to them; He rebuked the hardness of their heart; He expounded unto them in all the Scriptures the things concerning Himself: and, nevertheless, seeing that He was yet a stranger to faith in their hearts, He made as though He would~
have gone further. These words He made as though would here seem to mean He feigned, but He Who is simple Truth doth nothing with feigning: He only showed Himself to them in bodily manners, as He was towards them spiritually; but they were put to the proof whether, though they loved Him not yet as their God, they could love Him at least as a wayfarer.

[Responsory2]
R. The Good Shepherd, Who laid down His life for the sheep, yea, Who was contented even to die for His flock, the Good Shepherd is risen again.
* Alleluia, alleluia, alleluia.
V. For even Christ our Passover is sacrificed for us.
R. Alleluia, alleluia, alleluia.
&Gloria
R. Alleluia, alleluia, alleluia.

[Lectio3]
But since it was impossible, that they with whom Truth walked, should be loveless, they asked Him as a wayfarer to take of their hospitality. But why say we that they asked Him, when it is written: And they constrained Him? From their example we learn that we ought not only to bid, but also to urge, wayfarers to our hospitable entertainment. They laid a table therefore, and set before Him bread and meat; and that God Whom they had not known in the expounding of the Holy Scripture, they knew in the breaking of bread. In hearing the commandments of God they were not enlightened, but they were enlightened in the doing of them: as it is written: Not the hearers of the law are just before God, but the doers of the law shall be justified. (Rom. ii. 13.) Whosoever therefore will understand that which he heareth, let him make haste to practice in his works that which he hath already been able to hear. Behold, the Lord was not known while He spake, but He was contented to be known when He broke bread.
&teDeum

[Ant 2]
While they walked * Jesus drew near, and went with His disciples: but their eyes were holden that they should not know Him: and He rebuked them, saying: O fools, and slow of heart to believe all that the Prophets have spoken! Alleluia.

[Oratio]
O God, Who dost heal the sick world by the solemn gladness of the Passover, continue, we beseech thee, to pour forth thine heavenly gifts upon thy people, till the same shall bring them into perfect liberty, and finally avail them unto life everlasting.
$Per Dominum.

[Ant 3]
What manner of communications are these * that ye have one to another, as ye walk, and are sad? Alleluia.