[Rank]
Feria Quinta infra octavam Pentecostes;;Semiduplex I classis;;6;;ex Pasc7-0

[Rank1960]
Die Quinta infra octavam Pentecostes;;Semiduplex I classis;;6;;ex Pasc7-0

[RankNewcal]
Feria V post Pentecostes;;Feria;;1;;

[Rule]
ex Pasc7-0;
1 nocturn;
Psalmi Dominica;
Antiphonas horas 
Hymnus Tertia
Feria Te Deum 
no93

[Lectio1]
Continuation of the Holy Gospel according to Luke
!Luke 9:1-6
At that time: Jesus called His twelve disciples together, and gave them power and authority over all devils, and to cure diseases. And so on.
_
Homily by St. Ambrose, Bishop of Milan
!Bk. 6 on Luke ix
We learn from the commandments of the Gospel what manner of men they ought to be who preach the glad tidings of the kingdom of God "Take nothing for your journey neither staves nor scrip, neither bread neither money." Thus let the Apostle destitute of earthly help, and panoplies in faith, deem himself able to do all the more, as he needeth all the less Such as please may also put upon these words a spiritual interpretation in that a man may be said to lay as the encumbrances of the body, not only by abdicating power, and casting away riches, but also by denying the very body itself its pleasures. The first general commandment given to the Apostles touching their manners was to be bringers of peace, (Matth. x. 13,) and to be no gadders about, but keepers of the laws of guests. To wander from house to house, and to abuse the rights of hospitality, are things alien to a preacher of the kingdom of heaven.

[Responsory1]
R. The fire of God fell, not to burn them, but to enlighten them not to devour them, but to illuminate them and found the hearts of the disciples clean vessels.
* And He gave them gifts of His grace. Alleluia, Alleluia.
V. He found them one in love, and the out-poured grace of the Godhead shone through them.
R. And He gave them gifts of His grace. Alleluia, Alleluia.

[Lectio2]
But as the kindness of hospitality is to be met with courtesy, so also is it said "Whosoever will not receive you, when ye go out of that city, shake off the very dust from your feet, for a testimony against them." Hereby is it taught that hospitality doth meet with a good reward, since not only do we bring peace to such as receive us, but also, if they be shadowed by some earthly vanities, these defects are taken away, where enter the feet of them that bear the glad tidings of Apostolic preachment. It is well written in Matthew (x. 11): "Into whatsoever city or town ye shall enter, inquire who in it is worthy and there abide till ye go thence" thus avoiding any possible need of going from house to house. But no such selection is commanded to him that giveth hospitality, lest his hospitality itself should be lessened, while he picketh his guests.

[Responsory2]
R. The Holy Ghost filled all the house where the Apostles were and there appeared unto them cloven tongues like as of fire, and it sat upon each of them.
* And they were all filled with the Holy Ghost, and began to speak in diverse tongues as the Holy Spirit gave them utterance. Alleluia, Alleluia, Alleluia.
V. When the disciples were all with one accord in one place, for fear of the Jews, suddenly there came a sound from heaven upon them.
R. And they were all filled with the Holy Ghost, and began to speak in diverse tongues as the Holy Spirit gave them utterance. Alleluia, Alleluia, Alleluia.
&Gloria
R. And they were all filled with the Holy Ghost, and began to speak in diverse tongues, as the Holy Spirit gave them utterance. Alleluia, Alleluia, Alleluia.

[Lectio3]
This passage, taken according to the plain meaning, is a sacred commandment touching the religious duty of hospitality, but its heavenly words likewise hint at a mystery. When the house is chosen, it is asked if the master thereof be worthy. Let us see if this be not perchance a figure of the Church, and her Master, Christ. What worthier house can the Apostolic preacher enter, than the Holy Church? Or what host is more to be preferred before all others, than Christ, Whose use it is to wash the feet of His guests yea, Who suffereth not that any whom He receiveth into His house should dwell there with foul feet, but, defiled as they are by their former wanderings, doth vouchsafe to change them into new and clean livers. He Alone is He, from Whose house no man ought ever to go forth, nor change His roof for any other shelter, for unto Him it is well said "Lord, to whom shall we go? Thou hast the words of eternal life, and we believe." (John vi. 68, 69.)
&teDeum

[Ant 2]
Jesus called His twelve disciples * together, * and gave them power and authority over all devils, and to cure diseases and He sent them to preach the kingdom of God, and to heal the sick. Alleluia.

[Ant 3]
The Comforter, * Which proceedeth from the Father, alleluia, He shall glorify Me, alleluia, alleluia.
