[Rank]
Dominica III post Pascha;;Semiduplex;;5;;

[Rule]
9 Lectiones
Duplex
Una Antiphona

[Capitulum Vespera]
!1 Pet 2:11
v. Dearly beloved, I beseech you as strangers and pilgrims, to refrain yourselves from carnal desires which war against the soul.
$Deo gratias

[Ant 1]
A little while * and you shall not see me; and again a little while, and you shall see me, saith the Lord, because I go to the Father, alleluia, alleluia.

[Oratio]
Almighty God, Who showest to them that be in error the light of thy truth, to the intent that they may return into the way of righteousness grant unto all them that are admitted into the fellowship of Christ's Religion, that they may eschew those things that are contrary to their profession, and follow all such things as are agreeable to the same.
$Per Dominum

[Lectio1]
Lesson from the book of Revelation
!Rev 1:1-6
1 The Revelation of Jesus Christ, which God gave unto him, to make known to his servants the things which must shortly come to pass: and signified, sending by his angel to his servant John, who hath given testimony to the word of God, and the testimony of Jesus Christ, what things soever he hath seen.
3 Blessed is he, that readeth and heareth the words of this prophecy; and keepeth those things which are written in it; for the time is at hand.
4 John to the seven churches which are in Asia. Grace be unto you and peace from him that is, and that was, and that is to come, and from the seven spirits which are before his throne,
5 And from Jesus Christ, who is the faithful witness, the first begotten of the dead, and the prince of the kings of the earth, who hath loved us, and washed us from our sins in his own blood,
6 And hath made us a kingdom, and priests to God and his Father, to him be glory~
and empire for ever and ever. Amen.

[Responsory1]
R. Thou art worthy, O Lord, to take the book, and to open the seals thereof; alleluia: because thou wast slain, and hast redeemed us to God,
* In thy blood, alleluia.
V. And hast made us to our God a kingdom and priests.
R. In thy blood, alleluia.

[Lectio2]
!Rev 1:7-11
7 Behold, he cometh with the clouds, and every eye shall see him, and they also that pierced him. And all the tribes of the earth shall bewail themselves because of him. Even so. Amen.
8 I am Alpha and Omega, the beginning and the end, saith the Lord God, who is, and who was, and who is to come, the Almighty.
9 I John, your brother and your partner in tribulation, and in the kingdom, and patience in Christ Jesus, was in the island, which is called Patmos, for the word of God, and for the testimony of Jesus.
10 I was in the spirit on the Lord's day, and heard behind me a great voice, as of a trumpet,
11 Saying: What thou seest, write in a book, and send to the seven churches which are in Asia, to Ephesus, and to Smyrna, and to Pergamus, and to Thyatira, and to Sardis, and to Philadelphia, and to Laodicea.

[Responsory2]
R. As the vine I have brought forth a pleasant odour, alleluia.
* Come over to me, all ye that desire me, and be filled with my fruits, alleluia, alleluia.
V. in me is all hope of life and of virtue.
R. Come over to me, all ye that desire me, and be filled with my fruits, alleluia, alleluia.

[Lectio3]
!Rev 1:12-19
12 And I turned to see the voice that spoke with me. And being turned, I saw seven golden candlesticks:
13 And in the midst of the seven golden candlesticks, one like to the Son of man, clothed with a garment down to the feet, and girt about the paps with a golden girdle.
14 And his head and his hairs were white, as white wool, and as snow, and his eyes were as a flame of fire,
15 And his feet like unto fine brass, as in a burning furnace. And his voice as the sound of many waters.
16 And he had in his right hand seven stars. And from his mouth came out a sharp two edged sword: and his face was as the sun shineth in his power.
17 And when I had seen him, I fell at his feet as dead. And he laid his right hand upon me, saying: Fear not. I am the First and the Last,
18 And alive, and was dead, and behold I am living for ever and ever, and have the keys of death and of hell.
19 Write therefore the things which thou hast seen, and which are, and which must be done hereafter.

[Responsory3]
R. And I heard a voice from heaven, the voice of great thunder, alleluia: the Lord our God shall reign for ever, alleluia:
* Now is come salvation, and strength, and the power of his Christ, alleluia, alleluia.
V. And a voice came out from the throne, saying: Give praise to our God, all saints of Him that fear him, little and great.
R. Now is come salvation, and strength, and the power of his Christ, alleluia, alleluia.
&Gloria
R. Now is come salvation, and strength, and the power of his Christ, alleluia, alleluia.

[Lectio4]
Sermon from St. Augustine, Bishop (of Hippo)
!Sermo 147 de Tempore
During these Holy Days in commemoration of the Lord's resurrection, we purpose to preach, so far as he will empower us, the doctrine of the resurrection of the body. For this is the Faith, to wit: the gift of resurrection, which was bestowed upon the flesh of our Lord Jesus Christ, is what is promised to us, for it was first made manifest in him that we might know what to hope for ourselves. What he hath thus promised would come to us at the last, he willed not only to foretell but to demonstrate. Those who were present at that time (even though they were terrified and affrighted, and supposed they had seen a spirit), handled him, and saw that a spirit would not have flesh and bones, such as they saw him to have. Thus he spake to them, not only in words which they could hear, but in a body which they could see; as if it had not been enough to shew himself to their sight, but must needs even offer himself to be touched and handled.

[Responsory4]
R. One of the seven Angels talked with me, saying: Come hither, I will show thee the bride, the Lamb's wife.
* And I saw Jerusalem descending out of heaven, adorned with her jewels. Alleluia, Alleluia, Alleluia.
V. And he carried me away in the Spirit to a great and high mountain
R. And I saw Jerusalem descending out of heaven, adorned with her jewels. Alleluia, Alleluia, Alleluia.

[Lectio5]
For he said: Why are ye troubled? and why do thoughts arise in your hearts? For they supposed that they had seen a spirit. Therefore he added: Behold my hands and my feet, that it is I myself; handle me and see; for a spirit hath not flesh and bones, as ye see me have.  Of course, men have disputed this evidence; for what else could men do, seeing that they are wise only according to man's wisdom, which thus permitteth them to dispute concerning God in spite of what God hath shewn them of himself. He is God, they are men.  But God knoweth the thoughts of man, that they are but vain.

[Responsory5]
R. I heard in heaven the voice of many Angels, saying
* Fear the Lord, and give glory to Him, and worship Him That made heaven and earth, the sea, and the fountains of waters. Alleluia, Alleluia.
V. I saw a strong Angel of God fly through the midst of heaven, crying with a loud voice and saying
R. Fear the Lord, and give glory to Him, and worship Him That made heaven and earth, the sea, and the fountains of waters. Alleluia, Alleluia.
&Gloria
R. Fear the Lord, and give glory to Him, and worship Him That made heaven and earth, the sea, and the fountains of waters. Alleluia, Alleluia.

[Lectio6]
To carnal men, the one rule of understanding is his ordinary experience; seeing is believing. What men are accustomed to see, that they credit; what they are not accustomed to see, that they deem incredible. But God often worketh wonders (that is, things contrary to what we are accustomed), because he is God. Every day many men are born that previously had no existence at all; and this is a greater miracle than that a few, who did exist, have been raised from the dead.  Yet this wonder is not recognized as such; on the contrary, it is disregarded because man is accustomed to it. Christ rose again from the dead; that is a fact. He had a body: he took flesh, he hung upon the cross, he gave up the ghost; his flesh was laid in the tomb. After that, he shewed his flesh as alive again, he lived again the flesh. Why wonder, why deny it? God wrought this.

[Responsory6]
R. Coming from Lebanon how sweet she is, alleluia:
* And the sweet smell of her garments, above all aromatical spices, alleluia, alleluia.
V. Thy lips are as a dropping honeycomb, honey and milk are under thy tongue.
R. And the sweet smell of her garments, above all aromatical spices, alleluia, alleluia.
&Gloria
R. And the sweet smell of her garments, above all aromatical spices, alleluia, alleluia.

[Lectio7]
From the Holy Gospel according to John
!John 16:16-22
At that time, Jesus said to his disciples: A little while, and now you shall not see me; and again a little while, and you shall see me: because I go to the Father. And so on.
_
Homily by St. Augustine, Bishop (of Hippo.)
!Tract 101 of John
This little while is the whole duration of this present world. In the same sense this same Evangelist saith in his Epistle (ii. 18): It is the last time. The words, because I go to the Father, refer to the first clause of the text, namely, A little while and ye shall not see Me, and not to the latter clause, that is, and again a little while, and ye shall see Me. By His going to the Father He was about to bring it to pass that they should see Him no more. And thus it was that He said, not that He was about to die, and that after His death they should not see Him until He rose again, but that He was going to the Father, which He did when, after that He was risen again and had manifested Himself to them for forty days, He ascended up into heaven.

[Responsory7]
R. The people of Israel sung: Alleluia, and all the multitude of Jacob sung in measure.
* And David was with the singers, (and) played upon an harp in the house of the Lord, and sung praises unto God. Alleluia, Alleluia.
V. So the Priests and the Levites were sanctified, and all Israel brought up the ark of the covenant of the Lord with shouting.
R. And David was with the singers, (and) played upon an harp in the house of the Lord, and sung praises unto God. Alleluia, Alleluia.
&Gloria
R. And David was with the singers, (and) played upon an harp in the house of the Lord, and sung praises unto God. Alleluia, Alleluia.

[Lectio8]
But now, to them which were looking on Him in the Body, He saith: A little while, and ye shall not see Me, a little while, and they who now saw Him clad in a dying nature, should see Him so no more, because He was about to go to the Father. But He saith: And again a little while, and ye shall see Me, and these words are a promise to the Universal Church, just as are those others: Lo, I am with you alway, even unto the end of the world (Matth. xxviii. 20.) Our Lord delayeth not His promised coming. Again a little while, and we shall see Him. We shall see Him. And, O, when we shall see Him, then we shall beg, we shall ask no more; for no desire will be unsatisfied, and no riddle unsolved.

[Responsory8]
R. Your sorrow, alleluia,
* Shall be turned into joy. Alleluia.
V. The world shall rejoice; and you shall be made sorrowful: but your sorrow
R. Shall be turned into joy. Alleluia.
&Gloria
R. Shall be turned into joy. Alleluia.

[Lectio9]
This little while seemeth a very long while to us now, while as it is still going on, but when it is over we shall feel indeed how truly it is but a little while. Therefore, may our rejoicing never be like the rejoicing of that world whereof it is said: The world shall rejoice. A woman when she is in travail hath sorrow, and yet, while hitherto our gladness is still coming to the birth through throes of sorrow, let us not be altogether sorrowful, but, as the Apostle hath it (Rom. xii. 12): Rejoicing in hope: patient in tribulation. A woman, when she is in travail hath sorrow, because her hour is come: but as soon as she is delivered of the child, she remembereth no more the anguish, for joy that a man is born into the world. And so will it be with us. And with that let me end my discourse. The next passage is one of extreme difficulty; nor is it possible to treat it briefly, if, (with the will of God,) it is to be treated satisfactorily.
&teDeum

[Capitulum Sexta]
!1 Pet 2:13-14
v. Be ye subject therefore to every human creature for God's sake: whether it be to the king as excelling; Or to governors as sent by him for the punishment of evildoers, and for the praise of the good.
$Deo gratias

[Capitulum Nona]
!1 Pet 2:18-19
v. Servants, be subject to your masters with all fear, not only to the good and gentle, but also to the froward. For this is thankworthy, if for conscience towards God, a man endure sorrows, suffering wrongfully.
$Deo gratias

[Ant 3]
Amen, amen I say to you * that you shall lament and weep, but the world shall rejoice; and you shall be made sorrowful, but your sorrow shall be turned into joy.

[Commemoratio]
!Commemoratio for the Octave of St. Joseph
@Tempora/Pasc2-3:Oratio
