[Rank]
Dominica IV Post Pascha;;Semiduplex;;5;;

[Rule]
9 Lectiones
Una Antiphona
StJamesRule=Jas

[Capitulum Vespera]
!Jas 1:17
v. Beloved: Every best gift, and every perfect gift, is from above, coming down from the Father of lights, with whom there is no change, nor shadow of alteration.
$Deo gratias

[Ant 1]
I go My way to Him That sent Me, * and none of you asketh Me: Whither goest Thou? Alleluia, Alleluia.

[Oratio]
O God, of Whom it cometh that the minds of thy faithful people be all of one will, grant unto the same thy people that they may love the thing which Thou commandest, and desire that which Thou dost promise, that so, amid the sundry and manifold changes of the world, our hearts may surely there be fixed, where true joys are to be found.
$Per Dominum

[Lectio1]
Lesson from the letter of St. James the Apostle
!Jas 1:1-6
1 James the servant of God, and of our Lord Jesus Christ, to the twelve tribes which are scattered abroad, greeting.
2 My brethren, count it all joy, when you shall fall into diverse temptations;
3 Knowing that the trying of your faith worketh patience.
4 And patience hath a perfect work; that you may be perfect and entire, failing in nothing.
5 But if any of you want wisdom, let him ask of God, who giveth to all men abundantly, and upbraideth not; and it shall be given him.
6 But let him ask in faith, nothing wavering.

[Responsory1]
R. If I forget thee, Alleluia, let my right hand forget me.
* If I do not remember thee, let my tongue cleave to the roof of my mouth, alleluia, alleluia.
V. By the rivers of Babylon there we sat down and wept, when we remembered thee, O Zion.
R. If I do not remember thee, let my tongue cleave to the roof of my mouth, alleluia, alleluia.

[Lectio2]
!Jas 1:6-11
6 For he that wavereth is like a wave of the sea, which is moved and carried about by the wind. 
7 Therefore let not that man think that he shall receive any thing of the Lord.
8 A double minded man is inconstant in all his ways.
9 But let the brother of low condition glory in his exaltation:
10 And the rich, in his being low; because as the flower of the grass shall he pass away.
11 For the sun rose with a burning heat, and parched the grass, and the flower thereof fell off, and the beauty of the shape thereof perished: so also shall the rich man fade away in his ways.

[Responsory2]
R. The waters saw thee, O God, the waters saw thee and they were afraid.
* There was a noise as of many waters the clouds sent out a sound, alleluia, alleluia, alleluia.
V. thy lightnings lightened the world the earth saw it and shook.
R. There was a noise as of many waters the clouds sent out a sound, alleluia, alleluia, alleluia.

[Lectio3]
!Jas 1:12-16
12 Blessed is the man that endureth temptation; for when he hath been proved, he shall receive a crown of life, which God hath promised to them that love him.
13 Let no man, when he is tempted, say that he is tempted by God. For God is not a tempter of evils, and he tempteth no man.
14 But every man is tempted by his own concupiscence, being drawn away and allured.
15 Then when concupiscence hath conceived, it bringeth forth sin. But sin, when it is completed, begetteth death.
16 Do not err, therefore, my dearest brethren.

[Responsory3]
R. I will declare thy Name unto my brethren, alleluia.
* In the midst of the congregation will I praise thee, alleluia, alleluia.
V. I will praise thee, O Lord, among the people, and sing unto thee among the nations.
R. In the midst of the congregation will I praise thee, alleluia, alleluia.
&Gloria
R. In the midst of the congregation will I praise thee, alleluia, alleluia.

[Lectio4]
From the exposition of St. Cyprian, Bishop and Martyr, on the good of patience.
!Sermone 3. initio.
In speaking of patience, beloved brethren, and in preaching on its benefits and advantages, how can I better begin than by pointing out the fact that now, just for you to listen to me, I see that patience is necessary, as you could not even do this, namely, listen and learn, without patience. For only then is the word of God and way of salvation
effectively learned, if one listens with patience to what is being said. Dearly beloved brethren, there are diverse paths of heavenly wisdom, wherein we are invited to walk, if we would reach in the end the reward which God hath prepared to crown hope and faith but I find no path more useful toward life, nor more sure toward glory than this, that while we humbly strive, in all fear, and in all godliness, to obey the commandments of the Lord, we should set our chiefest guard in an unceasing watch over our patience. The philosophers also say that they take this path, but their patience is as much a sham as their wisdom is a cheat, for who can be wise or patient who knoweth nothing of God's wisdom or God's patience are the lives of servers and worshippers of God. Let it be ours, then, to show forth by spiritual watchfulness that patience which is a part of the teaching which we have learnt from heaven. Patience is one of His Own virtues whereof God hath made us partakers with Him our Great Head is the Captain of the patient, and it is through patience that He hath crowned Himself with glory and honour.

[Responsory4]
R. Bless ye God in the congregations, alleluia.
* Even the Lord, ye that are of the fountains of Israel, alleluia, alleluia.
V. Sing forth the honour of His Name, make His praise glorious.
R. Even the Lord, ye that are of the fountains of Israel, alleluia, alleluia.

[Lectio5]
But as for us, dearly beloved brethren, we are the real philosophers, whose wisdom lieth not in words but in deeds, and is manifested not in dresses but in the truth. We are they whose knowledge hath the inward consciousness, not the idle boasting, of strength. We are not speakers of high-sounding words, but our lives. Yea, God is Himself the Source, the Fountain, and the Greatness of patience, and it behoveth man to love what is beloved of God. That good thing which he loveth is commended unto him of God's Majesty. If God be our Lord and Father, let us follow after the example of our Lord and Father's patience, since it is the duty of servants to be obedient, and of sons to be home-minded.

[Responsory5]
R. With my whole heart, alleluia, have I sought thee, alleluia.
* O let me not wander from thy commandments, alleluia, alleluia.
V. Blessed art Thou, O Lord; teach me thy statutes.
R. O let me not wander from thy commandments, alleluia, alleluia.

[Lectio6]
By our patience God draweth us toward Himself, and keepeth us His Own. Patience doth soothe anger, bridle the tongue, govern the mind, keep peace, set rules of self-control, break the onset of lust, still the swelling of temper, put out the fire begotten of hatred, make the rich meek, and relieve the need of the poor patience doth guard in virgins their blessed wholeness in widows, their careful purity in such as be married, their single-hearted love one toward the other. Patience doth teach such as be successful to be lowly-minded such as be unfortunate, to be brave and all to be gentle when they are wronged and insulted. Patience maketh a man soon to forgive them that trespass against him, and if he have trespassed against any, long and humbly to ask his pardon. Patience doth fight down temptations, bear persecution, and endure unto the end in suffering, and in uplifting of our testimony. Patience is the moat that guardeth the stout foundations of the castle of our faith.

[Responsory6]
R. Sing us a song, alleluia.
* How shall we sing the Lord's song in a strange land, alleluia, alleluia.
V. There they that carried us away captive required of us a song.
R. How shall we sing the Lord's song in a strange land, alleluia, alleluia.
&Gloria
R. How shall we sing the Lord's song in a strange land, alleluia, alleluia.

[Lectio7]
From the Holy Gospel according to John
!John 16:5-14
At that time, Jesus said unto His disciples: I go My way to Him That sent Me, and none of you asketh Me: Whither goest Thou? And so on.
_
Homily by St. Augustine, Bishop of Hippo
!94th Tract on John
The Lord Jesus told His disciples what things they should suffer after that He was gone away from them, and then He said: "These things I said not unto you at the beginning, because I was with you; but now I go My way to Him That sent Me." Let us first see whether it had been that He had not told them before this what they were to suffer in time coming. That He had done so amply before the night of the last Supper, is testified by the three first Evangelists, but it was when that Supper was ended that, according to John, He said: "These things I said not unto you at the beginning, because I was with you."

[Responsory7]
R. I will sing a new song unto thee, O God, alleluia.
* Upon a psaltery of ten strings will I sing praises unto thee, alleluia, alleluia.
V. Thou art my God, and I will praise thee Thou art my God, and I will exalt thee.
R. Upon a psaltery of ten strings will I sing praises unto thee, alleluia, alleluia.

[Lectio8]
Are we then to try and loose the knot of this difficulty by asserting that, according to these three Evangelists, it was on the eve of the Passion, albeit before the Supper, that He had said these things unto them, and therefore not at the beginning, when He was with them, but when He was about to leave them, and go His way to the Father And in this way we might reconcile the truthfulness of what this Evangelist saith here "These things I said not unto you at the beginning" with the truthfulness of the! other three. But this explanation is rendered impossible by the Gospel according to Matthew, who telleth us how that the Lord spake to His Apostles concerning their sufferings to come, not only when He was on the point of eating the Passover with them, but at the very beginning, when the names of the twelve are first given, and they were sent forth to do the work of God. (Matth. x. 17-42.)

[Responsory8]
R. It is a good thing to give thanks unto the Lord, alleluia.
* And to sing praises, alleluia.
V. Upon an instrument of ten strings, upon the harp with a solemn sound.
R. And to sing praises, alleluia.
&Gloria
R. And to sing praises, alleluia.

[Lectio9]
It would seem then that when He said: "These things I said not unto you at the beginning, because I was with you," He meant by "these things," not the sufferings which they were to bear for His sake, but His promise of the Comforter Who should come to them, and testify while they suffered, (xv. 26, 27.) This Comforter then, or Advocate, (for the Greek word "Parakletos" will bear either interpretation,) would be needful to them when they saw Christ no more, and therefore it was that Christ spoke not of Him "at the beginning" (of the Gospel Dispensation) while He Himself "was with" His disciples, because His visible Presence was then their sufficient comfort.
&teDeum

[Capitulum Sexta]
!Jas 1:19-20
v. You know, my dearest brethren. And let every man be swift to hear, but slow~
to speak, and slow to anger. For the anger of man worketh not the justice of God.
$Deo gratias

[Capitulum Nona]
!Jas 1:21
v. Wherefore casting away all uncleanness, and abundance of naughtiness, with meekness receive the ingrafted word, which is able to save your souls.
$Deo gratias

[Ant 3]
I go My way to Him That sent Me, * but because I have said this to you, sadness has filled your hearts, alleluia.
