[Rank]
Dominica VIII Post Pentecosten;;Semiduplex;;5

[Rule]
9 lectiones
Psalmi Dominica
Antiphonas horas
Symbolum Athanasium

[Ant 1]
O Lord, Thou hast hearkened unto the prayer of thy servant, * that I might build a temple unto thy Name.

[Oratio]
Grant to us, Lord, we beseech thee, the spirit to think and do always such things as be rightful, that we, who cannot do anything that is good without thee, may by thee be enabled to live according to thy will.
$Per Dominum

[Lectio1]
Lesson from the first book of Kings
!1 Kgs 9:1-5
1 And it came to pass when Solomon had finished the building of the house of the Lord, and the king's house, and all that he desired, and was pleased to do,
2 That the Lord appeared to him the second time, as he had appeared to him in Gabaon.
3 And the Lord said to him: I have heard thy prayer and thy supplication, which thou hast made before me: I have sanctified this house, which thou hast built, to put my name there for ever, and my eyes and my heart shall be there always.
4 And if thou wilt walk before me, as thy father walked, in simplicity of heart, and in uprightness: and wilt do all that I have commanded thee, and wilt keep my ordinances and my judgments,
5 I will establish the throne of thy kingdom over Israel for ever, as I promised David thy father, saying: There shall not fail a man of thy race upon the throne of Israel.

[Lectio2]
!1 Kgs 9:6-9
6 But if you and your children revolting shall turn away from following me, and will not keep my commandments, and my ceremonies, which I have set before you, but will go and worship strange gods, and adore them: 
7 I will take away Israel from the face of the land which I have given them; and the temple which I have sanctified to my name, I will cast out of my sight; and Israel shall be a proverb, and a byword among all people. 
8 And this house shall be made an example of: every one that shall pass by it, shall be astonished, and shall hiss, and say: Why hath the Lord done thus to this land, and to this house: 
9 And they shall answer: Because they forsook the Lord their God, who brought their fathers out of the land of Egypt, and followed strange gods, and adored them, and worshipped them: therefore hath the Lord brought upon them all this evil.

[Lectio3]
!1 Kgs 9:10-14
10 And when twenty years were ended after Solomon had built the two houses, that is, the house of the Lord, and the house of the king,
11 (Hiram the king of Tyre furnishing Solomon with cedar trees and fir trees, and gold according to all he had need of.) then Solomon gave Hiram twenty cities in the land of Galilee. 
12 And Hiram came out of Tyre, to see the towns which Solomon had given him, and they pleased him not, 
13 And he said: Are these the cities which thou hast given me, brother? And he called them the land of Chabul, unto this day. 
14 And Hiram sent to king Solomon a hundred and twenty talents of gold. 

[Lectio4]
From the Book upon "The City of God" written by St. Augustine, Bishop of Hippo.
!Bk. xvii. ch. 8
Things which were then still to come were in a certain manner imagined in Solomon, who built the temple, who had that peace which his name implieth (for the name Solomon signifieth "the Peaceful One") and who, at the beginning of his reign, was marvellously praiseworthy. By these things he foreshadowed in his own person, though he set not forth with his mouth, our Lord Christ. Thus are some things written of Solomon which are, as it were, things written concerning Christ, the Holy Scripture in this way, by giving the history of things past, prophesying all the while of things to come.

[Lectio5]
Nor besides the books of the Divine history wherein his reign is recorded, the 71st Psalm is superscribed with his name. In this Psalm are many things which cannot suit him, but are most clearly applicable to the Lord Christ, thus showing that Solomon was, as it were, a shadowy figure cast before, of that which was afterwards revealed in very truth in the Person of Christ.

[Lectio6]
Without going into the rest, I may say that it is known what were the limits of Solomon's dominions, and yet in that Psalm we read: "He shall have dominion also from sea to sea, and from the river unto the ends of the earth." This we see fulfilled in Christ. It was from the river, that is, from His Baptism by John in Jordan, that He began His assumption of dominion, for then it was when John bare testimony unto Him that His disciples began to acknowledge Him, calling Him, not Master only, but Lord.

[Lectio7]
From the Holy Gospel according to Luke
!Luke 16:1-9
At that time, Jesus spake this parable unto His disciples: There was a certain rich man, which had a steward and the same was accused unto him that he had wasted his goods. And so on.
_
Homily by St. Jerome, Priest at Bethlehem.
!Letter 151. to Algasia.
The lord commended the unjust steward, because he had done wisely though wickedly. The lord, although himself defrauded by it, could not but praise the shrewdness of his dishonest servant, because he had cheated him with profit to himself. How much more will our Master Christ, Who is above any defrauding by us, and is Himself the Great Forgiver, praise us if we win a blessing from Him by dealing indulgently with those who are to believe in Him?

[Lectio8]
After this parable the Lord saith: “Make to yourselves friends of the mammon of unrighteousness.” This word "mammon" is a Syriac, not an Hebrew, word, signifying ill-gotten gains. If then even ill-gotten gains can be so used by such as have them as to profit them, how much more can they who, like the Apostles, are "stewards of the mysteries of God," those true and blameless riches, how much more can they profit themselves, (1 Cor. iv. 1,) even everlastingly, by their right use of them?

[Lectio9]
Therefore it is immediately written: “He that is faithful in that which is least, that is to say, in bodily things, is faithful also in much that is to say, in spiritual things.” “And he that is unjust in the least”, that is to say, by not giving to his needy brother succour of those things which are needful for the body, and which God hath made for all men, such an one is unjust also in much that is to say, he will deal out spiritual things unfairly, this to one and that to another, and not according to their true spiritual needs. "If therefore," saith the Lord, "ye have not been faithful in the "use of earthly riches which pass away, "who will commit to your trust the true and abiding riches," that is, the spiritual riches of the word of God?
&teDeum

[Ant 2]
The lord said unto his steward: * How is it that I hear this of thee? Give an account of thy stewardship. Alleluia.

[Ant 3]
What shall I do? * For my lord taketh away from me the stewardship. I cannot dig, to beg I am ashamed. I am resolved what to do, that, when I am put out of the stewardship, they may receive me into their houses.
