[Rank]
Dominica III Post Pentecosten;;Semiduplex;;5

[Lectio4]
From the Exposition [attributed to] of blessed Gregory, Pope, on the book of Kings
!Lib. 4, cap. 5 in I Reg. c. 10
Then Samuel took a vial of oil, and poured it over his head. Clearly this anointing expresses what has become a custom in Holy Church: for he who is made one of her princes receives the sacrament of anointing. Now, since this anointing is a sacrament, he who is thus promoted is well anointed outwardly, if he is inwardly strengthened by sacramental power. First, then, let us consider the virtues of oil. Oil is superior to other liquids, in that it feeds flame and is wont to heal wounds. It therefore signifies mercy, as it is written of the Lord, his mercy is over all his works. In that it feeds flame, it signifies preaching which enlightens the mind of the elect.

[Lectio5]
But in that wounds are healed by oil, it is clearly shown that the wounds of sin are to be wiped out. Let the head of the King be anointed then, that his mind may be filled with the spiritual grace of a teacher. Let him have oil through his anointing, let him have abundant mercy, which he should prefer to all other virtues. Let him have oil, so that while he kindles within himself the flame of the Holy Spirit, he may enlighten others by the Word. Likewise let him have the oil of healing, that he may dispense wisdom, and by it wipe out the stains of sins, and restore the sick in mind to health.

[Lectio6]
But Saul was anointed from a vial, not to signify teaching, but to indicate his future. For a vial is a very small vessel. Why was it that Saul was anointed from a vial of oil, if not because he was eventually to be cast out? For after he had refused to obey God, he heard from Samuel, because you have rejected the word of the Lord, he has also rejected you from being king. As the vial held but little oil, so he was to be cast away received but little spiritual grace. This may be taken to be the rulers of the holy Church. For many of them receive the high dignity of the prelacy who are not perfect in their love of God and of their neighbors.


