[Rank]
Sanctissimi Cordis Domini Nostri Jesu Christi;;Duplex majus;;5.1

[Rule]
9 lectiones
Psalmi Dominica
Antiphonas horas
Doxology=Hearth

[Ant Vespera]
Learn of Me, * for I am meek and lowly in Heart;;109
I have sanctified this place, * that My Name may be there for ever, and Mine eyes, and Mine heart shall be there perpetually;;110
And I said: Then have I cleansed my heart * in vain, and washed my hands in innocence, for all the day long have I been plagued;;111
In the multitude of the sorrows * within my heart, thy comforts delight my soul;;115
Set me as a seal upon thine heart, * as a seal upon thine arm;;129

[Capitulum Vespera]
!Isa 12:2
v. Behold, God is my saviour, I will deal confidently, and will not fear: O because the Lord is my strength, and my praise, and he is become my salvation. You shall draw waters with joy out of the saviour's fountains:
$Deo gratias

[Hymnus Vespera]
v. O Christ, the world's Creator bright,
Who didst mankind from sin redeem,
Light from the Father's glorious light,
True God of God, in bliss supreme.
_
thy love compelled thee to assume
A mortal body, man to save;
Reversing the old Adam's doom;
Our ransom the new Adam gave.
_
That love which gloriously framed all
The earth, the stars, and wondrous sea
Took pity on our parents' fall,
Broke all our bonds and set us free.
_
O Saviour, let thy potent love
Flow ever from thy bounteous heart;
To nations that pure fount above
The grace of pardon will impart.
_
His heart for this was opened wide,
And wounded by the soldier's spear,
That freely from his sacred side
Might flow the streams our souls to clear.
_
Glory to Father and to Son,
And to the Holy Ghost the same,
To whom all power, when time is done,
And endless rule, in endless fame.
Amen.

[Versum 1]
V. I am come to send fire on the earth,
R. And what will I, if it be already kindled?

[Ant 1]
My heart hath looked for * reproach and bitterness and I looked for some to take pity on me, and there was none and for comforters, and I found none.

[Oratio 1]
O God, the Protector of all them that trust in thee, without Whom nothing is strong, nothing is Holy increase and multiply upon us thy mercy, that Thou being our ruler and guide, we may so pass through things temporal, that we finally lose not the things eternal.
$Deo Gratias

[Invit]
Christ suffered for us, * O come, let us worship Him

[Hymnus Matutinum]
v. Lo, how the savage crew
Of our proud sins hath rent
The heart of our all-gracious God,
That heart so innocent.
_
The soldier's quivering lance
Our guilt it was that drave,
Our wicked deeds that to its point
Such cruel sharpness gave.
_
O wounded heart, whence sprang
The Church, the Saviour's bride;
Thou door of our salvation's ark
Set in its mystic side.
_
Thou holy fount, whence flows
The sacred sevenfold flood,
Where we our filthy robes may cleanse
In the Lamb's saving blood:
_
By sorrowful relapse,
thee will we rend no more;
But like the flames, those types of love,
Strive heavenward to soar.
_
Father and Son supreme
And Spirit, hear our cry;
Whose is the kingdom, praise and power,
Through all eternity.
Amen.

[Ant Matutinum]
What is man, that Thou shouldest magnify him? and that Thou shouldest set thine Heart upon him?;;8
Let the meditation of my heart be acceptable in thy sight for ever;;18
Be ye lift up, ye everlasting doors, and the King of glory shall come in;;23
V. Lord, Thou wilt ordain peace for us
R. For Thou hast also wrought all our works for us.
With gladness and rejoicing shall they be brought; they shall enter into the King's palace;;44
The Most High hath hallowed His Tabernacle;;45
All they that dwell in thee are in gladness;;86
V. thine anger is turned away.
R. And Thou comforteest me.
Show forth His salvation from day to day;;96
Worship Him, all ye His Angels Zion heard, and was glad;;97
All the ends of the earth have seen the salvation of our God;;107
V. Out of Zion, the Perfection of beauty
R. Our God shall come manifestly.

[Lectio1]
Lesson from the book of Isaias
!Isa 12:1-6
1 And thou shalt say in that day: I will give thanks to thee, O Lord, for thou wast angry with me: thy wrath is turned away, and thou hast comforted me.
2 Behold, God is my saviour, I will deal confidently, and will not fear: O because the Lord is my strength, and my praise, and he is become my salvation.
3 You shall draw waters with joy out of the saviour's fountains:
4 And you shall say in that day: Praise ye the Lord, and call upon his name: make his works known among the people: remember that his name is high.
5 Sing ye to the Lord, for he hath done great things: show this forth in all the earth.
6 Rejoice, and praise, O thou habitation of Sion: for great is he that is in the midst of thee, the Holy One of Israel.

[Lectio2]
!Isa 26:1-6
1 In that day shall this canticle be sung the land of Juda. Sion the city of our strength a saviour, a wall and a bulwark shall be set therein.
2 Open ye the gates, and let the just nation, that keepeth the truth, enter in.
3 The old error is passed away: thou wilt keep peace: peace, because we have hoped in thee.
4 You have hoped in the Lord for evermore, in the Lord God mighty for ever.
5 For he shall bring down them that dwell on high, the high city he shall lay low. He shall bring it down even to the ground, he shall pull it down even to the dust.
6 The foot shall tread it down, the feet of the poor, the steps of the needy.

[Responsory2]
R. Behold, when we shall see Him, He hath no form nor comeliness there is no beauty in Him this is He Which hath borne our griefs and carried our sorrows but He was wounded for our transgressions
* And with His stripes we are healed.
V. Surely He hath borne our griefs and carried our sorrows.
R. And with His stripes we are healed.

[Lectio3]
!Isa 26:7-9
7 The way of the just is right, the path of the just is right to walk in.
8 And in the way of thy judgments, O Lord, we have patiently waited for thee: thy name, and thy remembrance are the desire of the soul.
9 My soul hath desired thee in the night: yea, and with my spirit within me in the morning early I will watch to thee. When thou shalt do thy judgments on the earth, the inhabitants of the world shall learn justice.

[Lectio4]
From the Sermons of St. Bernard, Abbot of Clairvaux.
!3rd on the Lords Passion.
How that we have once reached the Heart of Jesus, that Heart of exceeding sweetness, and know how that "it is good for us to be here," (Matth. xvii. 4,) let us never again suffer ourselves to be torn away from Him concerning Whom it is written "They that depart from thee shall be written in the earth." (Jer. xvii. 13.) But what portion is theirs that draw nigh unto thee, Thou thyself, O Lord, dost tell us, for Thou hast said unto such " Rejoice, because your names are written in heaven." (Luke x. 20.) Unto thee therefore let us draw nigh "we will be glad and rejoice in thee " when " we remember thine" Heart. (Cant. i. 3.) "Behold, how good and pleasant it is to dwell in" (Ps. cxxxii. 1) this Heart! Yea, let me cast away all things, all my thoughts, and all my feelings,~
let me cast them all away, and let me "cast all my care" (1 Pet. v. 7) upon the~
Heart of the Lord Jesus "and He shall sustain me." (Ps. liv. 23.)

[Lectio5]
Toward this Temple, toward this Holy of Holies, towards this Ark of the covenant, "will I worship and praise thy Name " (Ps. cxxxvii. 2) saying with David " thy servant hath found in his heart to pray this prayer unto thee " (2 Kgs vii. 27.) And I have found the Heart of Jesus, the Heart of my King, my Brother, and my tender Friend. And am I not to worship Yea, O Jesus most sweet, now that I have found this Heart, Which is both thine and mine, I will worship thee, O my God And, O, do Thou graciously let my supplication enter into that Sanctuary of mercy Draw me altogether into that Heart of thine O Jesus, in the Perfection of thy beauty fairer than the children of men, wash Thou me " thoroughly from mine iniquity and cleanse me from my sin," (Ps. 1. 4,) that, being made pure by thee, I may be able to come unto thee, Who art thyself most Pure, and that I may be meet " to dwell in thy " Heart " all the days of my life, to behold " (Ps. xxvi. 4) thee, and to be strong to do thy will.

[Lectio6]
To this end was thy Side pierced, that we might find a wide entrance there. To this end was thine Heart wounded, that we might be able to dwell in It and in thee, "hidden in the secret of thy presence from the troubling of men." (Ps. xxx. 21.) Nevertheless, It was pierced to this end also, that behind that Bodily Wound which we see, we may perceive that wound of love which is not bodily. And how could that love be more strikingly shown than it is by Him Who hath given, not His Body only, but His very Heart, to be pierced for us The bodily wound showeth the spiritual. Who is there that would not love that wounded Heart Who would not return love for love to Him That hath loved so well Who would not embrace Him Who standeth so pure While, therefore, we yet linger here in this body, let us love and love again Him Who hath first loved us, let us lay hold on that Wounded One, Wounded for us, Whose Hands and Feet, Whose Side and Heart, the wicked husbandmen have so pierced. (Matth. xxi. 35-39.) Let us stand waiting till He be pleased to constrain with the bond, and pierce with the spear, of His love, these hearts of ours that still are so hard and unrepentant. (So far St. Bernard.) The Supreme Pontiff Clement XIII., to the end that Christ's faithful people might in still more godly and earnest sort call to mind, and more readily drink in the fruits of, the wondrous love of Him Who suffered for us, Who laid down His life for the redemption of man, and who hath instituted the Sacrament of His Own Body and Blood for a continual showing-forth of His death, of which love His Most Sacred Heart is an embodiment, granted the prayer of certain Churches, which desired to observe a Festival in honour of the said Most Sacred Heart. This Feast Pius IX. extended to the whole Church, and at length the Supreme Pontiff, Leo XIII., in accordance with the wishes of the whole Catholic world, raised it to the rank of a Double of the First Class.

[Lectio7]
From the Holy Gospel according to John
!John 19:31-17
At that time The Jews, because it was the Preparation, that the bodies should not remain upon the cross on the Sabbath-day (for that Sabbath was an high day) besought Pilate that their legs might be broken, and that they might be taken away. And so on.
_
Homily by St. Augustine, Bishop of Hippo
!12 oth Tract on John.
"One of the soldiers with a spear pierced His Side, and forthwith came thereout Blood and Water." The Evangelist speaketh carefully. He saith not that He smote the Side, nor yet that he wounded It, nor yet anything else, but "pierced" "pierced" It, to fling wide the entrance unto life, whence flow the Sacraments of the Church, those Sacraments without which there is no entrance unto the life which is life indeed. That Blood Which was shed there was shed for the remission of sins, that Water is the water that mantleth in the cup of salvation. Therein are we washed and thereof do we drink. Of this was it a type when it was said unto Noah: "The door of the ark shalt thou set in the side thereof.. and of every living thing of all flesh shalt thou bring into the ark.. to keep them alive." (Gen. vi. 16, 19.) A figure this of the Church.

[Lectio8]
From the Homilies of St. John Chrysostom, Patriarch of Constantinople.
!84th on John.
Seest thou the power of the truth? The act of the Jews was a mean to the fulfilment of prophecy, whereby another truth was made manifest. " Then came the soldiers, and brake the legs of the first, and of the other, which was crucified with Him. But when they came to Jesus, and saw that He was dead already, they brake not His Legs but one of the soldiers with a spear pierced His Side." Willing to do the Jews a pleasure, that man outraged his Redeemer even in death vile and iniquitous willingness But rest Thou still, O Thou Whom my soul loveth they thought to do it wickedly, but they did service to the truth. " For these things were done that the Scripture should be fulfilled: 'A bone of Him shall not be broken ' and again another Scripture saith 'They shall look on Him Whom they pierced.'" Nor was it done for this alone, but it was afterward a mean to faith for Thomas and them that were with him. And yet again another great mystery was here established, for " forthwith came thereout Blood and Water." Nor idly nor perchance sprang forth that twofold fountain, for the Church, like her Great Head, " came by Water and Blood not by Water only, but by~
Water and Blood." (1 John v. 6.)

[Responsory8]
R. Our Shepherd, even the Fountain of living waters, is gone from us He passed away, and the sun was darkened.
* Our Saviour hath burst the gates and bars of death.
V. The bands of hell He hath utterly abolished, and hath done away the power of the devil.
R. Our Saviour hath burst the gates and bars of death.
&Gloria
R. Our Saviour hath burst the gates and bars of death.

[Lectio9]
!De Homilia sancti Bonaventurae Episcopi.
!Liber de ligno Vitae.
Porro ut de latere Christi dormientis formaretur Ecclesia, divina est ordinatione indultum, ut unus militum lancea latus sacrum illud aperiendo perfoderet, quatenus sanguine cum aqua manente pretium effunderetur nostrae salutis, quod a fonte scilicet Cordis arcano profusum, vim daret sacramentis Ecclesiae ad vitam gratiae conferendam, essetque jam in Christo viventibus poculum fontis vivi, salientis in vitam aeternam. Surge igitur anima amica Christi, vigilare non cesses, ibi os appone, ut haurias aquas de fontibus Salvatoris.
&teDeum

[Ant Laudes]
Learn of Me, * for I am meek and lowly in Heart.
I have sanctified this place, * that My Name may be there for ever, and Mine eyes, and Mine heart shall be there perpetually.
And I said: Then have I cleansed my heart * in vain, and washed my hands in innocency, for all the day long have I been plagued.
In the multitude of the sorrows * within my heart, thy comforts delight my soul.
Set me as a seal upon thine heart, * as a seal upon thine arm.

[Hymnus Laudes]
v. Jesus, behind thy temple's veil,
Hid in an ark of gold,
On stones engraven, lay the law
thy finger wrote of old.
_
But in thy body's temple new,
thy life-blood's throbbing shrine,
Held, upon fleshly tables graved,
The law of love divine.
_
And when that heart in death was stilled,
Each temple's veil was riven:
And lo, within thy love's red shrine,
To us to look was given.
_
There make us gaze and see the love
Which drew thee, for our sake,
O great high-priest, thyself to God
A sacrifice to make.
_
Thou, Saviour, cause that every soul
Which thou hast loved so well,
May will within thine open heart
In life and death to dwell.
_
Grant it, O Father, only Son,
And Spirit, God of grace,
To whom all worship shall be done,
In every time and place.
Amen.

[Versum 2]
V. Surely He hath borne our griefs.
R. And carried our sorrows.

[Ant 2]
He was wounded * for our transgressions. He was bruised for our iniquities the chastisement of our peace was upon Him, and with His stripes we are healed.

[Oratio 2]
Almighty God, grant, we beseech thee, that all we who do make our boast in the most Holy Heart of thy well-beloved Son, and do tell of the wondrous works of His love to us-ward, may be blessed in knowing both what He hath wrought for us and also what He is able and willing to work in us.
$Per eumdem

[Lectio Prima]
!Isa 12:5-6
v. Sing ye to the Lord, for he hath done great things: show this forth in all the earth. Rejoice, and praise, O thou habitation of Sion: for great is he that is in the midst of thee, the Holy One of Israel.

[Responsory Tertia]
R.br. Surely He hath borne our griefs.
R. Surely He hath borne our griefs.
V. And carried our sorrows.
R. He hath borne our griefs.
&Gloria
R. Surely He hath borne our griefs.
_
V. He maketh peace in thy borders.
R. And filleth thee with the finest of the wheat.

[Capitulum Sexta]
!Isa 12:4
v. And you shall say in that day: Praise ye the Lord, and call upon his name: make his works known among the people: remember that his name is high.
$Deo gratias

[Responsory Sexta]
R.br. He maketh peace in thy borders.
R. He maketh peace in thy borders.
V. And filleth thee with the finest of the wheat.
R. Peace in thy borders.
&Gloria
R. He maketh peace in thy borders.
_
V. O Lord, Thou hast loosed my bonds.
R. I will offer to thee the sacrifice of thanksgiving.

[Capitulum Nona]
!Isa 12:5-6
v. Sing ye to the Lord, for he hath done great things: show this forth in all the earth. Rejoice, and praise, O thou habitation of Sion: for great is he that is in the midst of thee, the Holy One of Israel.
$Deo gratias

[Responsory Nona]
R.br. O Lord, Thou hast loosed my bonds.
R. O Lord, Thou hast loosed my bonds.
V. I will offer to thee the sacrifice of thanksgiving.
R. Thou hast loosed my bonds.
&Gloria
R. O Lord, Thou hast loosed my bonds.
_
V. It shall be to the Lord for a Name, for an everlasting Sign
R. That shall not be cut off.

[Versum 3]
V. With joy shall ye draw water.
R. Out of the fountains of the Saviour.

[Ant 3]
But when they came to Jesus * and saw that He was dead already, they brake not His Legs but one of the soldiers with a spear pierced His Side, and forthwith came thereout Blood and Water.
