[Rank]
Sabbato Sancto;;Feria privilegiata Duplex I classis;;7

[Rule]
Psalmi minores Dominica
Antiphonas horas
Omit Incipit Invitatorium Hymnus Capitulum Lectio Commemoratio Preces Suffragium Conclusion
Limit Benedictiones, Oratio
9 lectiones 1960
Capitulum Versum 2 ad Laudes tantum
Minores sine Antiphona
Feria

[Ant Matutinum]
I will both lay me down in peace, * and sleep.;;4
He shall abide in thy tabernacle: * he shall dwell in thy holy hill.;;14
My flesh * shall rest in hope.;;15
V. I will both lay me down in peace.
R. And sleep.
Be ye lift up, * ye everlasting doors, and the King of glory shall come in.;;23
I believe that I shall yet see * the goodness of the Lord in the land of the living.;;26
O Lord, Thou hast brought up * my soul from the grave.;;29
V. But Thou, O Lord, be merciful unto me.
R. And raise me up; and I will requite them.
God is my helper, * and the Lord upholdeth my soul.;;53
His place is in peace * and His dwelling-place in Zion.;;75
I am as a man that hath no strength, * lying nerveless among the dead.;;87
V. His place is in peace.
R. And His dwelling-place in Zion.

[Lectio1]
Lesson from the book of Lamentations
!Lam 3:22-30
22 Heth. The mercies of the Lord that we are not consumed: because his commiserations have not failed.
23 Heth. They are new every morning, great is thy faithfulness.
24 Heth. The Lord is my portion, said my soul: therefore will I wait for him.
25 Teth. The Lord is good to them that hope in him, to the soul that seeketh him.
26 Teth. It is good to wait with silence for the salvation of God.
27 Teth. It is good for a man, when he hath borne the yoke from his youth.
28 Jod. He shall sit solitary, and hold his peace: because he hath taken it up upon himself.
29 Jod. He shall put his mouth in the dust, if so be there may be hope.
30 Jod. He shall give his cheek to him that striketh him, he shall be filled with reproaches.
r. Jerusalem! Jerusalem! Return unto the Lord thy God. 

[Responsory1]
R. He hath been brought as a lamb to the slaughter, and while he was evil entreated he opened not his mouth: he was delivered up to death
* That he might quicken his people.
V. He hath poured out his soul unto death, and he was numbered with the transgressors.
R. That he might quicken his people.

[Lectio2]
!Lam 4:1-8
1 Aleph. How is the gold become dim, the finest colour is changed, the stones of the sanctuary are scattered in the top of every street?
2 Beth. The noble sons of Sion, and they that were clothed with the best gold: how are they esteemed as earthen vessels, the work of the potter's hands?
3 Ghimel. Even the sea monsters have drawn out the breast, they have given suck to their young: the daughter of my people is cruel, like the ostrich in the desert.
4 Daleth. The tongue of the sucking child hath stuck to the roof of his mouth for thirst: the little ones have asked for bread, and there was none to break it unto them.
5 He. They that were fed delicately have died in the streets; they that were brought up in scarlet have embraced the dung.
6 Vau. And the iniquity of the daughter of my people is made greater than the sin of Sodom, which was overthrown in a moment, and hands took nothing in her.
r. Jerusalem! Jerusalem! Return unto the Lord thy God. 

[Responsory2]
R. Arise, O Jerusalem, and put off thy garments of rejoicing: cover thee with sackcloth and ashes
* For the Saviour of Israel hath been slain in the midst of thee.
V. Let thy tears run down like a river day and night, and let not the apple of thine eye cease.
R. For the Saviour of Israel hath been slain in the midst of thee.

[Lectio3]
!Lam 5:1-11
1 Remember, O Lord, what is come upon us: consider and behold our reproach.
2 Our inheritance is turned to aliens: our houses to strangers.
3 We are become orphans without a father: our mothers are as widows.
4 We have drunk our water for money: we have bought our wood.
5 We were dragged by the necks, we were weary and no rest was given us.
6 We have given our hand to Egypt, and to the Assyrians, that we might be satisfied with bread.
7 Our fathers have sinned, and are not: and we have borne their iniquities.
8 Servants have ruled over us: there was none to redeem us out of their hand.
9 We fetched our bread at the peril of our lives, because of the sword in the desert.
10 Our skin was burnt as an oven, by reason of the violence of the famine.
11 They oppressed the women in Sion, and the virgins in the cities of Juda.
r. Jerusalem! Jerusalem! Return unto the Lord thy God. 

[Responsory3]
R. O my people! lament, like a virgin girded with sack-cloth for the husband of her youth, howl, ye shepherds, in sack-cloth and ashes
* For the day of the Lord is at hand, and it is great and very terrible.
V. Gird yourselves, ye Priests, and howl, ye ministers of the altar: cast up ashes upon you.
R. For the day of the Lord is at hand, and it is great and very terrible.
&Gloria
R. O my people! lament, like a virgin, girded with sack-cloth for the husband of her youth, howl, ye shepherds, in sack-cloth and ashes * For the day of the Lord is at hand, and it is great and very terrible.

[Lectio4]
From the Treatise of St. Augustine, Bishop (of Hippo,) Upon the Psalms
!On Psalm lxiii, 7
We shall attain to thoughts that are very deep: but God shall still be exalted. The enemies of our Lord had communed of laying snares privily; they had said, Who shall see them? They had searched out iniquities; they had accomplished a diligent search. And Man attained even unto (the realization of) their counsels, for the Lord, as Man, suffered Himself to be taken. For He had not been taken at all, unless He had been a Man, or seen, unless He had been a Man, or smitten, unless He had been a Man, or crucified, unless He had been a Man, or have died, unless He had been a Man. Man therefore, He attained unto all those sufferings, which had had nothing in Him, unless He had been a Man. But if He had not been Man, man had not been redeemed. And the Lord as Man attained to thoughts that were very deep, yea, secret; showing the Manhood to the eyes of men, and keeping the Godhead within Him; veiling the form of God, as touching Which, He is Equal to the Father, and manifesting the form of a servant, as touching which, He is inferior to the Father.

[Responsory4]
R. Our Shepherd, even the Fountain of living waters, is gone from us; He passed away, and the sun was darkened.
* For now hath our Saviour bound him captive, which bound the first man captive; this day hath He burst the gates and bars of death.
V. The bands of hell He hath utterly abolished, and hath done away the power of the devil.
R. For now hath our Saviour bound him captive, which bound the first man captive; this day hath He burst the gates and bars of death.

[Lectio5]
How far did the accomplishment of their diligent search reach? Even to the setting a watch of soldiers at the sepulchre, to guard the Lord, even after He was dead and buried. For they said unto Pilate: Sir, we remember that that deceiver (Matth. xxvii. 63.) This was the term by which they designated the Lord Jesus Christ, and the remembrance that He was so named is a sweet consolation to us His servants, when we are called impostors. So they said unto Pilate, that deceiver said, while He was yet alive: After three days I will rise again. Command therefore that the sepulchre be made sure until the third day, lest His disciples come and steal Him away, and say unto the people: He is risen again from the dead: so the last error shall be worse than the first. Pilate said unto them: Ye have a watch; go your way; make it as sure as ye can. So they went and made the sepulchre sure, sealing the stone, and setting a watch.

[Responsory5]
R. O all ye that pass by, behold and see;
* If there be any sorrow like unto my sorrow.
V. O all ye nations, behold, and see my sorrow,
R. If there be any sorrow like unto my sorrow.

[Lectio6]
So they went, and made the sepulchre sure, sealing the stone, and setting a watch and anon, behold, there was a great earthquake, and the Lord arose. So great wonders were wrought about the sepulchre that the very soldiers, which were put to guard it, were witnesses thereto, if only they would have told the truth. But the same love of money which had made a slave of that disciple who was a companion of Christ, made slaves also of the soldiers that were put to watch His sepulchre. Some of the watch came into the city, and showed unto the chief-priests all the things that were done: and when they were assembled with the elders, and had taken counsel, they gave large money unto the soldiers, saying: Say ye, His disciples came by night and stole Him away while we slept. In good sooth, their diligent search had been accomplished and ended before this. What didst thou say, O stupid cunning? Wast thou indeed so utterly void of the light of godly wisdom, and confounded in the bottomless pit of thine own falsehood as to tell them to say: His disciples came by night, and stole Him away while we slept? Part of the testimony of thine eye-witnesses was that they were asleep at the time: thou thyself wast asleep not to be able to see that on their own testimony, their testimony must have been worthless.

[Responsory6]
R. Behold how the righteous dieth, and no man taketh it to heart; and the just are taken away, and none considereth. From the midst of sinners is the righteous translated;
* And his memory is in peace.
V. As a lamb before his shearers is dumb, so He opened not His mouth; He was taken from prison and from judgment.
R. And his memory is in peace.
&Gloria
R. Behold how the righteous dieth, and no man taketh it to heart; and the just are taken away, and none considereth. From the midst of sinners is the righteous translated; * And his memory is in peace.

[Lectio7]
From the letter of blessed Apostle Paul to the Hebrews
!Heb 9:11-14
11 But Christ, being come an high priest of the good things to come, by a greater and more perfect tabernacle not made with hand, that is, not of this creation:
12 Neither by the blood of goats, or of calves, but by his own blood, entered once into the holies, having obtained eternal redemption.
13 For if the blood of goats and of oxen, and the ashes of an heifer being sprinkled, sanctify such as are defiled, to the cleansing of the flesh:
14 How much more shall the blood of Christ, who by the Holy Ghost offered himself unspotted unto God, cleanse our conscience from dead works, to serve the living God?

[Responsory7]
R. The kings of the earth set themselves, and the rulers take counsel together
* Against the Lord, and against His Anointed.
V. Why do the heathen rage? and the people imagine a vain thing,
R. Against the Lord, and against His Anointed?

[Lectio8]
!Heb 9:15-18
15 And therefore he is the mediator of the new testament: that by means of his death, for the redemption of those transgressions, which were under the former testament, they that are called may receive the promise of eternal inheritance.
16 For where there is a testament, the death of the testator must of necessity come in.
17 For a testament is of force, after men are dead: otherwise it is as yet of no strength, whilst the testator liveth.
18 Whereupon neither was the first indeed dedicated without blood.

[Responsory8]
R. I am counted with them that go down into the pit.
* I am as a man that hath no strength, lying nerveless among the dead.
V. They have laid me in the lowest pit, in darkness, and in the shadow of death.
R. I am as a man that hath no strength, lying nerveless among the dead.

[Lectio9]
!Heb 9:19-22
19 For when every commandment of the law had been read by Moses to all the people, he took the blood of calves and goats, with water, and scarlet wool and hyssop, and sprinkled both the book itself and all the people,
20 Saying: This is the blood of the testament, which God hath enjoined unto you.
21 The tabernacle also and all the vessels of the ministry, in like manner, he sprinkled with blood.
22 And almost all things, according to the law, are cleansed with blood: and without shedding of blood there is no remission.

[Responsory9]
R. After that the Lord was buried, they sealed the sepulchre, rolling a stone to the door of the sepulchre
* Setting a watch to keep Him.
V. The chief priests came together unto Pilate, and made that request unto him.
R. Setting a watch to keep Him.
&Gloria
R. After that the Lord was buried, they sealed the sepulchre, rolling a stone to the door of the sepulchre, * Setting a watch to keep Him.

[Ant Laudes]
O death, I will be thy death; * O grave, I will be thy destruction.
They shall mourn for Him * as one mourneth for his only son, for the innocent Lord hath been put to death.
(sed rubrica tridentina) They shall mourn for Him * as one mourneth for his only son, for the innocent Lord hath been put to death.;;42
O all ye nations, behold * and see my sorrow.
O Lord, deliver my soul * from the gates of the grave.;;222
O all ye that pass by * behold, and see if there be any sorrow like unto my sorrow.

[Versum 2]
V. My flesh shall rest in hope.
R. Neither wilt Thou suffer thine Holy One to see corruption.

[Ant 2]
There were women sitting over against the sepulchre * weeping, and making lamentation for the Lord.

[Oratio 2]
@Tempora/Quad6-4:Oratio:s/unto death/unto death, even to the death of the cross. For which cause God also hath exalted him, and hath given him a name which is above all names/