[Rank]
Dominica in Septuagesima;;Semiduplex;;5.6

[Rank1960]
Dominica in Septuagesima;;Semiduplex;;5

[Rule]
9 lectiones
Invit2

[Capitulum Vespera]
!1 Cor 9:24
v. Know you not that they that run in the race, all run indeed, but one receiveth the prize? So run that you may obtain.
$Deo gratias

[Ant 1]
The Lord said unto Adam: * Of the tree which is in the midst of the garden, thou shalt not eat; in the hour that thou eatest thereof, thou shalt surely die.

[Oratio]
O Lord, we beseech thee favourably to hear the prayers of thy people; that we, who are justly punished for our offences, may be mercifully delivered by thy goodness, for the glory of thy Name.
$Per Dominum.

[Invit]
Let us come before the presence of the Lord * and make a joyful noise unto Him with Psalms.

[Lectio1]
Lesson from the book of Genesis
!Gen 1:1-8
1 In the beginning God created heaven, and earth.
2 And the earth was void and empty, and darkness was upon the face of the deep; and the spirit of God moved over the waters.
3 And God said: Be light made. And light was made.
4 And God saw the light that it was good; and he divided the light from the darkness.
5 And he called the light Day, and the darkness Night; and there was evening and morning one day.
6 And God said: Let there be a firmament made amidst the waters: and let it divide the waters from the waters.
7 And God made a firmament, and divided the waters that were under the firmament, from those that were above the firmament, and it was so.
8 And God called the firmament, Heaven; and the evening and morning were the second day.

[Responsory1]
R. In the beginning God created the heavens and the earth, wherein He made man also
* After His own image and likeness.
V. So God formed man of the dust of the ground, and breathed into his face the breath of life.
R. After His own image and likeness.

[Lectio2]
!Gen 1:9-19
9 God also said: Let the waters that are under the heaven, be gathered together~
into one place: and let the dry land appear. And it was so done.
10 And God called the dry land, Earth; and the gathering together of the waters, he called Seas. And God saw that it was good.
11 And he said: Let the earth bring forth the green herb, and such as may seed, and the fruit tree yielding fruit after its kind, which may have seed in itself upon the earth. And it was so done.
12 And the earth brought forth the green herb, and such as yieldeth seed according to its kind, and the tree that beareth fruit having seed each one according to its kind. And God saw that it was good.
13 And the evening and the morning were the third day.
14 And God said: Let there be lights made in the firmament of heaven, to divide the day and the night, and let them be for signs, and for seasons, and for days and years:
15 To shine in the firmament of heaven, and to give light upon the earth. And it was so done.
16 And God made two great lights: a greater light to rule the day; and a lesser light to rule the night: and the stars.
17 And he set them in the firmament of heaven to shine upon the earth.
18 And to rule the day and the night, and to divide the light and the darkness. And God saw that it was good.
19 And the evening and morning were the fourth day.

[Responsory2]
R. In the beginning God created the heavens and the earth, and the Spirit of God moved upon the face of the waters.
* And God saw everything that He had made, and it was very good.
V. Thus the heavens and the earth were finished, and all the hosts of them.
R. And God saw everything that He had made, and it was very good.

[Lectio3]
!Gen 1:20-26
20 God also said: Let the waters bring forth the creeping creature having life, and the fowl that may fly over the earth under the firmament of heaven.
21 And God created the great whales, and every living and moving creature, which the waters brought forth, according to their kinds, and every winged fowl according to its kind. And God saw that it was good.
22 And he blessed them, saying: Increase and multiply, and fill the waters of the sea: and let the birds be multiplied upon the earth.
23 And the evening and morning were the fifth day.
24 And God said: Let the earth bring forth the living creature in its kind, cattle and creeping things, and beasts of the earth, according to their kinds. And it was so done.
25 And God made the beasts of the earth according to their kinds, and cattle, and every thing that creepeth on the earth after its kind. And God saw that it was good.
26 And he said: Let us make man to our image and likeness: and let him have dominion over the fishes of the sea, and the fowls of the air, and the beasts, and the whole earth, and every creeping creature that moveth upon the earth.

[Responsory3]
R. The Lord formed man of the dust of the ground
* And breathed into his face the breath of life, and man became a living soul.
V. In the beginning God created the heavens and the earth, wherein He made man also.
R. And breathed into his face the breath of life, and man became a living soul.
&Gloria
R. And breathed into his face the breath of life, and man became a living soul.

[Lectio4]
From the Handbook, written by St. Augustine, Bishop (of Hippo.)
!Chaps. xxv., xxvi., xxvii., tom. 3
The Lord threatened man with the punishment of death, in case he sinned. Thus did He gift him with free will, while He yet kept His lordship over him, and helped him with the dread of destruction. And so He put him in that happy garden, under the very shadow of the tree of life, in that good place from whence, had he kept his righteousness, he might have passed to a better. But the first man sinned, and was banished from Eden, and infected all his descendants with the disease of sin, poisoning their very root, and bringing upon all that sentence of death and damnation, which he had earned for himself. So that all that descend by fleshly generation from Adam, and from the guilty woman, who was the cause of his sin and the partaker of his punishment, derive from them original sin; whereby they are drawn through a way of diverse sins and sorrows, towards that final ruin which they shall share with the rebel angels who are at once their corrupters, their lords, and their comrades.

[Responsory4]
R. God took the man and put him into the garden of Eden 
* To dress it and to keep it.
V. And the Lord God had planted a garden aforetime in Eden, and there He put the man whom He had formed.
R. To dress it and to keep it.

[Lectio5]
So by one man sin entered into the world, and death by sin, (and so death passed~
upon all men,) in whom all have sinned. (Rom. v. 12.) By the world the Apostle signified! in this place all mankind. Thus then hath the matter stood. The damned mass of humanity lay in misery, or rather wallowed in it, and fell from bad to worse, till it joined the company of the sinning angels, and both together suffered the deserved punishment of their vile treason.

[Responsory5]
R. The Lord God said: It is not good that the man should be alone.
* Let Us make an help meet for him.
V. But for Adam there was not found an help meet for him; and God said:
R. Let Us make an help meet for him.

[Lectio6]
So the wrath of God appertained whatever sin man, through the blind and untamed sting of his flesh, willingly committeth, and whatever punishment, declared and open, he unwillingly suffereth. There is, indeed, no pause in that goodness of the Creator whereby He giveth even to the traitor angels life and strength, (which if He gave not, they would be annihilated,) and whereby He formeth the seed of men, though they come of a corrupt and condemned stock, quickeneth them, strengtheneth and fitteth their limbs for the changing seasons of their life, extendeth their knowledge in diverse places, and giveth them whereon to live. It hath been His will rather to draw good out of evil, than to suffer that there should be no evil.

[Responsory6]
R. The Lord caused a deep sleep to fall upon Adam, and He took one of his ribs. † And the rib which the Lord had taken from Adam made He a woman, and brought~
her unto Adam, to see what he would call her. 
* And he called her name Woman, because she was taken out of Man.
V. And while he slept He took one of his ribs, and closed up the flesh instead thereof.
R. And the rib which the Lord had taken from Adam made He a woman, and brought her unto Adam, to see what he would call her.
&Gloria
R. And he called her name Woman, because she was taken out of Man.

[Lectio7]
From the Holy Gospel according to Matthew
!Matt 20:1-16
In that time, Jesus said to his disciples: The kingdom of heaven is like to an householder, who went out early in the morning to hire labourers into his vineyard. And so on.
_
Homily by Pope St. Gregory (the Great.)
!19th on the Gospels
We hear that the kingdom of heaven is like unto a man that is an householder, which went out early in the morning, to hire labourers into his vineyard. Who indeed is more justly to be likened to an householder than our Maker, Who is the Head of the household of faith, bearing rule over them whom He hath made, and being Master of His chosen ones in the world, as a Master over those that are in his house? He it is That hath the Church for a vineyard, a vineyard that ceaseth not to bring forth branches of the True Vine, from righteous Abel to the last of the elect that shall be born in the world.

[Responsory7]
R. And the Lord God had planted a garden aforetime in Eden,
* And there He put the man whom He had formed.
V. And out of the ground made the Lord God to grow every tree that is pleasant to the sight, and good for food, the tree of life also in the midst of the garden.
R. And there He put the man whom He had formed.

[Lectio8]
This householder, then, for the cultivation of his vineyard, goeth out early in the morning, and at the third hour, and the sixth hour, and the ninth hour, and the eleventh hour, to hire labourers into his vineyard. Thus the Lord, from the beginning to the end of the world, ceaseth not to gather together preachers for the instruction of His faithful people. The early morning of the world was from Adam until Noah; the third hour from Noah until Abraham; the sixth hour from Abraham until Moses; the ninth hour from Moses until the coming of the Lord; the eleventh hour from the coming of the Lord until the end of the world. At this eleventh hour are sent forth as preachers the Holy Apostles, who have received full wages, albeit they be come in late.

[Responsory8]
R. Behold, Adam is become as One of Us, to know good and evil.
* See lest he take of the tree of life and live for ever.
V. Unto Adam also did the Lord God make a coat of skins, and clothed him, and said:
R. See lest he take of the tree of life and live for ever.

[Lectio9]
For the cultivation of His vineyard, (that is, the instruction of His people,) the Lord hath never ceased to send into it labourers. First, by the Fathers, then, by the Prophets and Teachers of the Law, and lastly, by the Apostles He hath dressed and tended the lives of His people, as the owner of a vineyard dresseth and tendeth it by means of workmen. Whoever in whatever degree joined to a right faith the teaching of righteousness, was so far one of God's labourers in God's vineyard. By the labourers at early morning, and at the third hour, the sixth hour, and the ninth hour, may be understood God's ancient people, the Hebrews, who strove to worship Him with a right faith in company with His chosen ones from the very beginning of the world, and thus continually laboured in His vineyard. And now, at the eleventh hour, it is said unto the Gentiles also Why stand ye here all the day idle?

[Responsory9]
R. The Lord said unto Cain: Where is Abel thy brother? Lord, I know not am I my brother's keeper? And He said unto him What hast thou done?
* Behold, the voice of thy brother Abel's blood crieth unto Me from the ground.
V. Cursed shalt thou be upon the earth, which hath opened her mouth to receive thy brother's blood from thy hand.
R. Behold, the voice of thy brother Abel's blood crieth unto Me from the ground.
&Gloria
R. Behold, the voice of thy brother Abel's blood crieth unto Me from the ground.

[Ant Laudes]
Have mercy upon me, * O God, and cleanse me from my sin, for against thee only have I sinned.
I will praise thee, * for thou hast heard me.
O God, Thou art my God, * early will I seek thee, because thou hast been my help.
Blessed art thou, * O our God, in the firmament of heaven, and worthy to be praised above all for ever.
Praise ye the Lord * from the heavens.

[Ant 2]
Thus saith the Lord: The kingdom of heaven is like unto a man that is an householder, * which went out early in the morning to hire labourers into his vineyard.

[Ant Prima]
And when he had agreed * with the labourers for a penny a day, he sent them into his vineyard.

[Ant Tertia]
Go ye also * into my vineyard, and whatsoever is right, that will I give you.

[Ant Sexta]
Why stand ye here * all the day idle? They answered and said unto him: Because no man hath hired us.

[Capitulum Sexta]
!1 Cor 9:25
v. And every one that striveth for the mastery, refraineth himself from all things: and they indeed that they may receive a corruptible crown; but we an incorruptible one.
$Deo gratias

[Ant Nona]
The Lord of the vineyard saith * Call the labourers, and give them their hire.

[Capitulum Nona]
!1 Cor 10:4-5
v. And all drank the same spiritual drink; and they drank of the spiritual rock that followed them, and the rock was Christ. But with most of them God was not well pleased: for they were overthrown in the desert.
$Deo gratias

[Ant 3]
The householder saith unto his labourers: * Why stand ye here all the day idle? But they answered and said: Because no man hath hired us. Go ye also into my vineyard, and whatsoever is right, that will I give you.
