[Rank]
Feria Sexta infra Hebdomadam II in Quadragesima;;Feria major;;2

[Rule]

[Lectio1]
Continuation of the Holy Gospel according to Matthew
!Matt 21:33-46
In that time, Jesus said to the multitude of Jews and the chief priests: Hear ye another parable. There was a man an householder, who planted a vineyard, and made a hedge round about it. And so on.
_
Homily by St. Ambrose, Bishop (of Milan.)
!Bk. ix on Luke xx
Many derive diverse spiritual meanings from the term vineyard, but Isaias giveth us to know that the vineyard of the Lord of Sabaoth is the house of Israel. (v. 7.) Who but God planted that vineyard? He it was that let it out to husbandmen, and went into a far country; not that the Lord, Who is everywhere present, moveth from place to place; but because He is nigh unto them that seek Him, and from such as regard Him not He standeth afar off. For a long time He tarried away, lest He might seem to ask too early for the fruits of His vineyard. For where kindness is greatest, there ingratitude is worst.

[Lectio2]
Therefore it is well written in Matthew, for our instruction, that He hedged it round about, that is, He girded it with the fortifications of His own Divine protection, that it might not easily lie open to the ravages of spiritual wild beasts. And digged a wine-press in it. What sense are we to put upon the wine-press, unless it be that the Psalms are here described under that title, because in them the mysteries of the Lord's Passion flow over like new wine, working under the power of the Holy Ghost? Whence also, they upon whom the Holy Ghost was outpoured were deemed to be drunken (Acts ii. 13.). God therefore digged a wine-press, whereinto the reasonable grapes of inward fruitfulness poured their spiritual richness.

[Lectio3]
And built a tower that is, He raised up the goodly structure of the Law. And so this His vineyard, thus fortified, furnished, and garnished, He gave over to the Jews. And when the time of the fruit drew near, He sent His servants to the husbandmen. Well doth He call it the time of the fruit, not the time of the in-gathering. For the Jews yielded Him no fruit; the Lord had no ingathering from that vineyard of which He said: When I looked that it should bring forth grapes, it brought forth wild grapes. (Isa. v. 4.) Not that wine that maketh glad the heart of man, not with the new wine of the spirit, reeked that wine-press, but with the blood of the Prophets, brutally shed.

[Ant 2]
He will miserably destroy * those wicked men, and will let out His vineyard unto other husbandmen, which shall render Him the fruits in their seasons.

[Oratio 2]
O Almighty God, grant, we beseech thee, that the Sacred Fast may so cleanse us that thereby Thou mayest make us to come with clean hearts unto those holy ordinances which are now before us.
$Per Dominum

[Ant 3]
When they sought * to lay hands on Him, they feared the multitude, because they took Him for a Prophet.

[Oratio 3]
Grant unto thy people, O Lord, we beseech thee, soundness both of mind and body, that they, cleaving ever unto good works, may evermore worthily be defended by the shield of thine Almighty arm.
$Per Dominum
