[Rank]
Feria Secunda infra Hebdomadam Passionis;;Feria major;;2

[Rule]

[Lectio1]
Continuation of the Holy Gospel according to John
!John 7:32-39
At that time, the rulers and Pharisees sent ministers to apprehend him. And so on.
_
Homily by St. Augustine, Bishop (of Hippo.) 
!31th Tract on John
How could they take Him until such time as He willed to be taken? If, then, they could not take Him until He willed to be taken, were they sent to watch His teaching? Then said Jesus unto them Yet a little while am I with you what ye now seek to do, ye shall do; but not yet, for I will not so yet. And why will I not so yet? Because yet a little while am I with you, and then I go unto Him that sent Me I must fulfill that which I am sent to do, and so go to suffer.

[Responsory1]
R. Deliver me, O my God, out of the hand of the wicked, and out of the hand of the unrighteous and cruel man.
* For Thou art my hope.
V. O my God, be not far from me O my God, make haste for my help.
R. For Thou art my hope.

[Lectio2]
You shall seek Me, and shall not find Me, and where I am thither ye cannot come. In these words He foretold already His rising again from the dead. While He was with them they would not know Him; and afterwards they sought Him, when they saw that a multitude already believed in Him. For great signs were wrought also when the Lord rose again, and ascended up into heaven. Then were great signs again wrought through the Disciples, that is, through them by Him Who worketh the same directly also by Himself, according as He had said unto them: Without Me ye can do nothing. (John xv. 5.) When that lame man that was laid daily at the Beautiful Gate of the Temple stood up at the voice of Peter (Acts iii.) and walked, and all the people were filled with wonder, Peter bade them know that it was not by his own power that he had made him to walk, but by the power of Him Whom they had killed. And when they heard this, many were pricked in their heart, and said: What shall we do? (Acts ii. 37.)

[Responsory2]
R. They that lay wait for my soul take counsel together, saying God hath forsaken him;
* Persecute and take him, for there is none to deliver him. O my God, be not far from me; O my God, make haste for my help.
V. All that hate me whispered together against me; against me did they devise my hurt, saying:
R. Persecute and take him, for there is none to deliver him. O my God, be not far from me; O my God, make haste for my help.

[Lectio3]
Nor they saw that they were burdened with the guilt of an exceeding great sin, in that they had killed Him, Whom it was their duty to worship and adore and for that guilt they knew of no propitiation. Yea, their sin was indeed exceeding great; and the consideration of it made them to despair for whom the Lord, when He hung upon the Cross, had been willing to pray, as it is written. Then said Jesus: Father, forgive them, for they know not what they do. (Luke xxiii. 34.) At that hour He had seen among many aliens some that were His Own; for them He asked forgiveness, while yet He suffered at their hand, nor considered that they were putting Him to death, but only that He was dying for them.

[Responsory3]
R. Mine enemies spoke to me peaceably, but in wrath they troubled me.
* This Thou hast seen, O Lord; keep not silence be not far from me.
V. But as for me, when they troubled me, my clothing was sackcloth, and I humbled my soul with fasting.
R. This Thou hast seen, O Lord; keep not silence, be not far from me.
&Gloria
R. Mine enemies spoke to me peaceably, but in wrath they troubled me. * This Thou hast seen, O Lord; keep not silence, be not far from me.

[Ant 2]
In the last day, that great day of the Feast, * Jesus stood and cried, saying: If any man thirst, let Him come unto Me, and drink.

[Oratio 2]
Hallow, O Lord, we beseech thee, this our Fast, and mercifully grant us forgiveness of all our trespasses.
$Per Dominum

[Ant 3]
If any man thirst, let him come unto Me, * and drink, and out of his belly shall flow living water, saith the Lord.

[Oratio 3]
Grant unto thy people, we beseech thee, O Lord, health both of mind and body, that they, ever cleaving unto good works, may under thy shadow be ever worthily defended.
$Per Dominum.
