[Rank]
Feria Quinta infra Hebdomadam Passionis;;Feria major;;2

[Rule]

[Lectio1]
Continuation of the Holy Gospel according to Luke
!Luke 7:36-50
In that time, one of the Pharisees desired him to eat with him. And he went into the house of the Pharisee, And so on.
_
Homily by Pope St. Gregory (the Great.)
!33rd on the Gospels
When I think of the repentance of Mary Magdalene I feel nigher to weep than to say ought. Is there indeed any man, however stony his heart, who is not somewhat moved to follow the example of her repentance by the tears of that poor sinful woman? She weighed what she did, and would not that what she did should be niggardly. She came unbidden among the guests, and obtruded her tears upon the banquet. Ye may hence gather her sorrow, that she was content to weep at a feast.

[Lectio2]
We believe that this woman, of whom Luke saith that she was a woman in the city, which was a sinner, and whom John nameth Mary, (xi. 2,) was the same as she of whom it is written in Mark (xvi. 9) that the Lord had cast out of her seven devils. And what signify seven devils but all manner of sin? For even as seven days do represent all time, so doth the number seven stand for all. Therefore is it said that Mary had seven devils, because she was full of all sin.

[Lectio3]
But see how she realized the depth of her own filthiness, and came to be washed to the Well of Mercy, before all them which were bidden to the feast. The bitterness of her inward shame made her esteem it a light thing to be despised outwardly. At what then do we marvel, my brethren? That she came, or that the Lord welcomed her? Or would it be truer for me to say that He drew her to Him and welcomed her when she came? for His mercy inwardly drew her, and, when she came, His gentleness openly welcomed her.

[Ant 2]
The Master saith: My time is at hand; * I will keep the Passover at thy house with My disciples.

[Oratio 2]
Grant, we beseech thee, O Almighty God, that the honour of man's nature, which gluttony hath degraded, may be seasonably renewed by strictness in keeping of this healthful Fast.
$Per Dominum

[Ant 3]
With desire I have desired * to eat this Passover with you before I suffer.

[Oratio 3]
O Lord, we beseech thee deal mercifully with thy people, and fill plentifully with the rich things of thy commandments all them who at this time do, to fulfill thy will, turn away from that which displeaseth thee.
$Per Dominum
