Upon the 19th day of June, were  born into the better life   
_
At Florence, St. Juliana Falconieri, virgin, foundress of the Sisters of the Order of the Servants of the Blessed Virgin Mary, who was placed among the holy virgins by the Sovereign Pontiff, Clement XII.
At Milan, [in the first century,] the holy martyrs Gervase and Protase, brothers. The former, by order of the judge Astasius, was scourged with leaded whips for so long that he expired.  The latter, after being scourged with rods, was beheaded. Through divine revelation their bodies were found by St. Ambrose. They were partly covered with blood, and as free from corruption as if they had been put to death that very day. When the translation took place, a blind man recovered his sight by touching their relics, and many persons possessed by demons were delivered.
At the monastery in the valley of Castro in Piceno, the birthday of St. Romuald, anchoret, a native of Ravenna. He was the founder of the Camaldolese monks, and he restored and greatly extended monastic discipline, which was much relaxed in Italy. His feast is observed on the 7th of February, on which day his sacred relics were transferred to Fabriano.
At Arezzo in Tuscany, the holy martyrs Gaudentius, bishop, and Culmatius, deacon, who were murdered by the furious heathen, during the reign of Valentinian.
Also, St. Boniface, martyr, a disciple of blessed Romuald, who was sent by the Roman Pontiff, Gregory V, to preach the Gospel in Russia. Having passed through fire uninjured, and baptized the king and his people, he was killed by the enraged brother of the king, and thus gained the palm of martyrdom which he ardently desired.
At Ravenna, [likewise in the first  century,] St. Ursicinus, martyr, who remained constant through many torments in the confession of martyrdom by being beheaded.
At Sozopolis, under the governor Domitian, during the persecution of Trajan, St. Zosimus, martyr, who suffered bitter tortures, was beheaded, and thus triumphantly went to heaven.
