Upon the 22nd day of June, were born into the better life:  
_
At Verulamium, in Britain, the holy martyr Alban, who in the time of Diocletian gave himself up for a clerk whom he had received as a guest, and was beheaded, [in the year 303,] after being scourged and sharply tormented. One of the soldiers who led him to execution was turned to Christ upon the way and was made worthy to be baptized in his own blood. 
At Nola, a city of Campania, the blessed Confessor Paulinus, Bishop of that city, [in the year 431,] who, whereas he was a very noble and wealthy person, became for Christ's sake poor and lowly, and then in addition gave himself up for a slave in order to redeem a widow's son whom the Vandals had carried off as a prisoner to Africa when they wasted Campania. He was illustrious, not only on account of his learning and of the abounding holiness of his life, but also on account of his power against evil spirits. His praises have been set forth in their writings with great force by holy Ambrose, Jerome, Austin, and Gregory [the Great.] His body has been brought to Rome, and lieth in honour along with the body of the holy Apostle Bartholomew in the church of that Apostle in the island in the Tiber. 
At Mount Ararat, ten thousand holy martyrs, who were crucified in the second century. 
At Samaria, one thousand four hundred and eighty holy martyrs, who suffered under Chosroes, King of the Persians. 
At Rome is commemorated the translation of the holy Consular Flavius Clemens, martyr, who was put to death for Christ's faith's sake by the Emperor Domitian. His body was found in the church of holy Pope Clement, and there solemnly reburied. 
On the same day, holy Niceas, Bishop of Romacium, famous for his teaching and holy life. 
At Naples, in Campania, holy John, Bishop [of that see,] whom blessed Paulinus, Bishop of Nola, called unto the kingdom of heaven, [in the year 853].
In the monastery at Cluny, the holy Virgin Consortia, [in the year 570.] 
At London in England, on Tower Hill, St. John Fisher, bishop of Rochester and cardinal of the Holy Roman Church. For the defense of the Catholic faith and the primacy of the Roman Pontiff he was beheaded by order of King Henry VIII.
At Rome, [in the year 1276,] the blessed Pope Innocent V, who, with gentleness and wisdom, toiled for the upholding of the Church, and for the liberty and unity of Christians. His veneration having been represented to Pope Leo XIII, that Pontiff approved and confirmed it. 
