Upon the 7th day of October, were born into the better life  
_
At Rome, upon the Ardeatine Way, (in the year 336,) the holy Confessor, Pope Mark, (who succeeded Sylvester I., and reigned 8 months and 20 days.) 
In the district called Rasaphe, in Syria, the holy martyrs Sergius and Bacchus, noble Roman officers under the Emperor Maximian. Bacchus was lashed with strips of raw hide till his whole body was cut into ribbons, and so, still confessing Christ, gave up the ghost. Sergius had his legs tortured in the boots, but remaining firm in the faith, sentence was given on him that he should be beheaded. The place where he sleepeth was called after him Sergiopolis instead of Rasaphe, (by command of the Emperor Justinian,) and thither Christians do greatly resort on account of famous miracles. 
At Rome, the holy martyrs Marcellus and Apuleius, who were first disciples of Simon Magus, but afterward, seeing the wonders which the Lord wrought by the Apostle Peter, became disciples of the Apostle, and, after he had suffered, won the crown of martyrdom under the Consular Aurelian. They are buried not far from the city. 
At Rasaphe also, the holy Virgin Julia, who gained martyrdom under the President Marcian. 
At Padua, the holy Virgin and martyr Justina, who was baptized by blessed Prosdocimus, a disciple of the holy Apostle Peter. Forasmuch as she stood firm in the faith of Christ, the President Maximus caused her to be run through with the sword, and she passed away hence to be ever with the Lord. 
At Bourges, (about the year 560,) the holy Priest and Confessor Augustus. 
At Rheims, (in the sixth century,) the holy Priest Helanus. 
Upon the same day is made the memorial of St Mary, styled of Victory, the yearly observance of which memorial the Supreme Pontiff blessed Pius V. ordained on account of the famous victory gained by the Christians over the Turks upon this day in the sea-fight of Lepanto, by the help of the aforesaid Mother of God, and Gregory XIII. instituted the yearly solemn feast of the same most Blessed Virgin to be kept upon the first Lord's Day in this present month of October. 
