V. Sir, ask for a blessing.
Blessing. May the almighty and merciful Lord grant us a peaceful night and a perfect end. Amen. 

#Lesson
!1 Pet 5:8-9
v. Brethren: Be sober, be watchful! Your adversary, the devil, prows around like a roaring lion, seeking someone to devour. Resist him, firm in your faith. Indeed, Lord have mercy on us.

V. Our help is in the name of the Lord.
R. Who made heaven and earth. 

!Examination of Conscience or Our Father in secret.
$Our Father

$ConfiteorOP
$MisereaturOP

V. Revive us now, God our helper!
R. Put an end to your greivance against us. 

V. O God, make haste to my rescue. 
R. Lord, come to my aid.

&Gloria
&Alleluia

#Psalmi 

#Hymn
v. To you, before the close of day,
Creator of the world, we pray
That, with accustomed kindess you
Would guard and keep us ever true. 
_
May no ill dreams disturb our ease,
No nightly fears or fantasies; 
Tread underfoot our ghostly foe,
That no defilement we may know. 
_
Almighty Father, this accord
Through Jesus Christ, your Son, Our Lord,
Who with the Holy Spirit true
For ever reigns in bliss with you. 
Amen.

V. Guard us, Lord, as the apple of your eye.
R. Hide us in the shadow of your wings.

#Canticle of Simeon
!Luke 2
At last, all-powerful Master, you give leave to your servant * to go in peace, according to your promise. 
_
For my eyes have seen your salvation * which you have prepared for all nations, the light to enlighten the Gentiles * and give give to Israel your people. 

Ant. Keep us safe, Lord, while we are awake and guard us as we sleep, that we may keep watch with Christ and rest in peace. 
The Lord be with you.
V. And also with you. 

#Prayer
Let us pray.
Visit this house, we beseech you, Lord, and drive far away all snares of the enemy. May your holy angels who dwell here, keep us in peace. 
And may your blessing rest always upon us. Through our Lord. Amen. 
R. May the Lord be with you. 
V. And also with you. 
R. Let us bless the Lord.
V. Thanks be to God. 

#Antiphon 
Hail, O Queen, mother of mercy; hail, our life, our delight and our hope! To you we cry, exiled children of eve; to you we send up our sighs, mourning and weeping, in this vale of tears. So then, our advocate, turn your eyes of mercy towards us, and after this our exile, show to us the blessed fruit of your womb, Jesus. O loving, O kind Virgin Mary.
V. Permit me to sing your praises, Holy Virgin! 
R. Strengthen then me against your enemies. 

#Prayer
Let us pray.
Grant, we beseech you, Lord God, that we of your household may enjoy unfailing health of mind and body, and, through the intercession the glorious intercession of blessed Mary, ever virgin, be delivered from present sorrow to delight in joy eternal. Through Christ the Lord. 

#Antiphon 
$FinalAntiphonOP

May the souls of the faithful departed through the mercy of God rest in peace.
R. Amen. 






