[Rank]
S. Justini Martyris;;Duplex;;3;;vide C2

[Rule]
vide C2;

[Introitus]
!Ps 118:85; 118:46;
v. The wicked have told me fables: but not as thy law. And I spoke of thy testimonies before kings: and I was not ashamed. (Alleluia, alleluia.)
!Ps 118:1; 
v.  Blessed are the undefiled in the way, who walk in the law of the Lord. 
&Gloria
v. The wicked have told me fables: but not as thy law. And I spoke of thy testimonies before kings: and I was not ashamed. (Alleluia, alleluia.)

[Oratio]
O God, Who through the preaching of the Cross, which is to them that perish~
foolishness, didst wonderfully teach unto thy blessed martyr Justin the~
excellency of the knowledge of Christ Jesus Our Lord, grant unto us at his~
prayers the grace to cast off all false teaching and ever to hold fast to the~
faith. 
$Per eumdem

[Commemoratio Oratio]
!Commemoratio pro Ss. Tiburtii, Valeriani et Maximi Mm.,
@Sancti/04-14t:Oratio

[Lectio]
Lesson from the first letter of St Paul the Apostle to the Corinthians
!1 Cor 1:18-25; 1:30;
v.  For the word of the cross, to them indeed that perish, is foolishness; but to them that are saved, that is, to us, it is the power of God. For it is written: I will destroy the wisdom of the wise, and the prudence of the prudent I will reject. Where is the wise? Where is the scribe? Where is the disputer of this world? Hath not God made foolish the wisdom of this world? For seeing that in the wisdom of God the world, by wisdom, knew not God, it pleased God, by the foolishness of our preaching, to save them that believe. For both the Jews require signs, and the Greeks seek after wisdom: But we preach Christ crucified, unto the Jews indeed a stumblingblock, and unto the Gentiles foolishness: But unto them that are called, both Jews and Greeks, Christ the power of God, and the wisdom of God. For the foolishness of God is wiser than men; and the weakness of God is stronger than men. But of him are you in Christ Jesus, who of God is made unto us wisdom, and justice, and sanctification, and redemption:

[Graduale]
!1 Cor 3:19; 3:20
v.  For the wisdom of this world is foolishness with God. For it is written: The Lord knoweth the thoughts of the wise, that they are vain, alleluia.
!1 Cor 1:19
v. I will destroy the wisdom of the wise, and the prudence of the prudent I will reject, alleluia, alleluia.
v.  For the wisdom of this world is foolishness with God. For it is written: The Lord knoweth the thoughts of the wise, that they are vain, alleluia.
!Phil 3:8
v.  Furthermore I count all things to be but loss for the excellent knowledge of Jesus Christ my Lord; alleluia.

[Tractus]
!1 Cor 2:2; 2:7-8
v.  For I judged not myself to know anything among you, but Jesus Christ, and him crucified. 
V. But we speak the wisdom of God in a mystery, a wisdom which is hidden, which God ordained before the world, unto our glory : 
V. Which none of the princes of this world knew; for if they had known it, they would never have crucified the Lord of glory.

[Evangelium]
Continuation + of the Holy Gospel according to Luke
!Luke 12:2-8
For there is nothing covered, that shall not be revealed: nor hidden, that shall not be known. For whatsoever things you have spoken in darkness, shall be published in the light: and that which you have spoken in the ear in the chambers, shall be preached on the housetops. And I say to you, my friends: Be not afraid of them who kill the body, and after that have no more that they can do. But I will shew you whom you shall fear: fear ye him, who after he hath killed, hath power to cast into hell. Yea, I say to you, fear him. Are not five sparrows sold for two farthings, and not one of them is forgotten before God? Yea, the very hairs of your head are all numbered. Fear not therefore: you are of more value than many sparrows. And I say to you, Whosoever shall confess me before men, him shall the Son of man also confess before the angels of God.

[Offertorium]
!1 Cor 2:2; 
v.  For I judged not myself to know anything among you, but Jesus Christ, and him crucified. (Alleluia)

[Secreta]
Gratiously receive, O Lord, these our offerings thy wondrous mystery opf which thy holy martyr Justin resolutely defended against the calumnies of the ungodly.
$Per Dominum

[Commemoratio Secreta]
!Commemoratio pro Ss. Tiburtii, Valeriani et Maximi Mm.
@Sancti/04-14t:Secreta

[Communio]
!2 Tim 4:8;
v.  As to the rest, there is laid up for me a crown of justice, which the Lord the just judge will render to me in that day (Alleluia)

[Postcommunio]
Refreshed with the food of heaven, we humbly beseech thee, O Lord, that following the teaching of blessed Justin, thy martyr, we may ever be thankful for the gifts which we have received.
$Per Dominum.

[Commemoratio Postcommunio]
!Commemoratio pro Ss. Tiburtii, Valeriani et Maximi Mm.
@Sancti/04-14t:Postcommunio
