[Rank]
Sabbato in Albis;;Semiduplex I class;;6;;ex Pasc0-0

[Rule]
ex Pasc0-0;
1 nocturn;
Omit Hymnus Preces Suffragium;
Minores sine Antiphona;
Capitulum Versum 2;
Psalmi Dominica;

[Ant Matutinum]
I am who I am * and my counsel is not with the ungodly, my will is in the law of God, alleluia;;1
I asked my Father * alleluia, and he gave me nations, alleluia, as inheritance, alleluia;;2
I have slept * and have taken my rest: and I have risen up, because the Lord hath protected me. alleluia, alleluia;;3
V. The disciples therefore were glad, alleluia
R. When they saw the Lord, alleluia
					
[Lectio1]
Continuation of the Holy Gospel according to John
!John 20:1-9
And on the first day of the week, Mary Magdalen cometh early, when it was yet dark, unto the sepulchre;. And follows.
_
Homily by Pope St Gregory (the Great.)
!22nd on the Gospels.
Dearly beloved brethren, the portion of the Holy Gospel which hath just now been read in your ears, is exceeding simple on the face of it, which is its historical sense; but the mystic almighty and everlasting God, Who hast made the Mystery of the Passover the seal of the Covenant of man's Redemption, grant unto our souls that we may not only outwardly observe the same, but may effectually bring forth the fruits thereof. Through our Lord Jesus Christ thy Son, Who liveth sense, which underlieth that other, requireth from us a little searching. Mary Magdalene came unto the Sepulchre when it was yet dark. The historic sense telleth us what was the hour of day; the mystic sense, the state of her understanding who sought. Mary Magdalene sought for Him, by Whom all things were made, and Whom she had seen die, as concerning the flesh; she sought for Him, I say, in the grave, and finding Him not, she believed that He had been stolen away. Yea, it was yet dark, when she came unto the sepulchre. Then she ran and told the disciples, but they who had loved Him most, namely Peter and John, did outrun the others.

[Responsory1]
R. Knowing that Christ rising again from the dead, dieth now no more, death shall no more have dominion over him. For in that he died to sin, he died once;
* In that he liveth, he liveth unto God:
V. He died once for the sins, and he rose for our justification
R. In that he liveth, he liveth unto God:

[Lectio2]
So they ran both together, but John did outrun Peter, and came first to the Sepulchre, but yet took he not upon himself to go in first. Then cometh Peter following him, and went in. What, my brethren, what did the racing of these Apostles signify? Can we believe that the description given by the deepest of the Evangelists is without a mystic interpretation? By no means. John had never told how that he did outrun Peter, and yet went not into the Sepulchre, if he had not believed that his hesitation veiled some mystery. What signifieth John but the Synagogue? or Peter, but the Church?

[Responsory2]
R. These are the new lambs, who have proclaimed Alleluia : they came but just now to the well
* They are all filled with light. Alleluia, Alleluia.
V. In the presence of the Lamb they are clothed with white robes, and hold palms in their hands.
R. They are all filled with light. Alleluia, Alleluia.
&Gloria
R. They are all filled with light. Alleluia, Alleluia.

[Lectio3]
Neither must ye take it as strange that the elder Apostle should represent the Church, and the younger the Synagogue : for although the Synagogue was first to worship God, yet the herd of Gentiles is in the world older than the Synagogue, as witnesseth Paul where he saith : That was not first which is spiritual, but~
that which is natural. (i Cor. xv. 46.) By Peter, then, who was the elder, is signified the Church of the Gentiles; and by John, who was the younger, the Synagogue of the Jews. They run both of them together, for from the time of her birth until now, and so will it be until the end, the Church of the Gentiles hath run in a parallel road and manywise a common road with the Synagogue, albeit not with equal understandings. The Synagogue came first to the Sepulchre, but she hath not yet entered in; for, though she hath received the commandments of the law, and hath heard the Prophets tell of the Incarnation and Passion of the Lord, she will not believe in Him Who died for her.
&teDeum

[Ant 2]
They ran * both together, and that other disciple did outrun Peter, and came first to the Sepulchre. Alleluia.

[Oratio]
Grant, we beseech thee, O Almighty God, that we who have kept worshipfully the Passover holidays, may at last worthily pass from keeping Feasts unto thee here to the everlasting jubilation hereafter.
$Per Dominum
