@Sancti/01-21

[Ant Matutinum]
I will none of thee, prey of death, for I am prevented by another Lover;;1
My right hand and my neck hath He clasped with precious stones, and put pearls beyond price in mine ears;;2
He hath sealed me in my forehead, that I may let in no other lover but Him.;;4
The Lord hath clothed me with a vesture of wrought gold, and adorned me with a necklace of great price;;5
I have sucked honey and milk out of His Mouth, and His Blood is red on my cheeks;;8
The Virgin of Christ * is not shaken by terror nor seduced by favours;;10
V. In thy comeliness and thy beauty.
R. Go forward, fare prosperously, and reign.
Christ hath crowned me with the bright and priceless blossoms of the eternal spring-time;;14
I am wedded to the Lord of Angels, at Whose beauty the sun and the moon do wonder;;44
His Holy body * is already united to me, and his blood is red upon my cheeks;;45
I plight my troth * to Him alone at whose beauty the sun and moon do wonder;;47
Stans a dexteris eius Agnus nive candidior Christus sibi sponsam et Martyrem consecravit;;84
I plight my troth to him alone, and committ myself altogether to Him;;86
V. God shall help her with his strength
R. God is in the midst of her, she shall not be moved.
Lord hath sent his angel, * and hath delivered me out of the fire I was not burnt;;249;250;251
V. God hath chosen her and fore-chosen her.
R. He hath made her to dwell in His tabernacle.

[Ant Vespera 3]
Agnes entered * the place of shame, and found the Angel of the Lord ready;;109
For I have with me * an Angel of the Lord to keep my body;;111
My Lord Jesus Christ hath espoused me with His ring, * and hath set on my head a crown as the crown of a bride;;112
Rejoice with me * and make merry, because I also have received a throne in light among all these;;126

[LectioE]
v. Continuation of the Holy Gospel according to Matthew
!Matt 25:1-13
25:1 THEN shall the kingdom of heaven be like to ten virgins, who taking their lamps went out to meet the bridegroom and the bride.
25:2 And five of them were foolish, and five wise.
25:3 But the five foolish, having taken their lamps, did not take oil with them:
25:4 But the wise took oil in their vessels with the lamps.
25:5 And the bridegroom tarrying, they all slumbered and slept.
25:6 And at midnight there was a cry made: Behold the bridegroom cometh, go ye forth to meet him.
25:7 Then all those virgins arose and trimmed their lamps.
25:8 And the foolish said to the wise: Give us of your oil, for our lamps are gone out.
25:9 The wise answered, saying: Lest perhaps there be not enough for us and for you, go ye rather to them that sell, and buy for yourselves.
25:10 Now whilst they went to buy, the bridegroom came: and they that were ready, went in with him to the marriage, and the door was shut.
25:11 But at last come also the other virgins, saying: Lord, Lord, open to us.
25:12 But he answering said: Amen I say to you, I know you not.
25:13 Watch ye therefore, because you know not the day nor the hour.
$Te decet
