@Sancti/02-05

[Ant Vespera]
Who art thou * who comest to heal my wounds? I am an Apostle of Christ have no fear of me, my daughter.;;109
I have used no earthly medicine * for my body, but I have for a Master Christ Jesus, by Whose Word alone all things were made.;;112
O my Lord Jesus Christ, I thank thee, * because Thou hast been mindful of me, and hast sent unto me thine Apostle, to heal my wounds.;;121
Upon Him Who hath vouchsafed * to heal me of all my wounds, and to put new paps on my breasts, upon Him will I call, even upon the Living God.;;126

[Ant Matutinum]
I am well born * and of a respectable family, as all my relations testify.;;1
And if you are free-born, why do you show yourself a servile person? * Because I am the handmaiden of Christ, therefore I show myself to be a servile person.;;2
The best of my birth is * that I was born the slave of Christ.;;4
I look like a slave * because I am one the slave of Christ.;;5
The holy Agatha said: Dost thou promise me beasts? When they hear Christ's name they grow tame.;;8
If thou put the fire to me, Angels will bring me a saving dew from heaven.;;10
V. In thy comeliness and thy beauty.
R. Go forward, fare prosperously, and reign.
Unless thou make the executioners to handle my body vigorously, my soul will not be able to enter into the Lord's paradise with the palm of martyrdom.;;14
O Lord, Thou hast seen how I have fought, and how I have run in the race; but, because I would not obey the magistrates, they ordered me to be tortured in the breasts.;;15
Because of my chastity they ordered me to be stretched upon the rack; help me, O Lord my God, for they are torturing my breasts.;;44
Agatha went to prison with great joy and exultation, like a guest to a banquet, and recommended her struggle to the Lord in prayer.;;84
Agatha, having gone into prison, * was blessing the Lord Jesus Christ;;86
My mind * has been strengthened, and has been established by Christ.;;95
V. God shall help her with his strength.
R. God is in the midst of her, she shall not be moved.
When the Blessed Agatha * came into the prison, she stretched forth her hands to God, and said: O Lord, Who hast made me overcome the cruelty of the executioners * May it please Thee that I should attain unto thy mercy.;;249;250;251
V. God hath chosen her and fore-chosen her.
R. He hath made her to dwell in His tabernacle.

[Responsory9]
R. While the blessed Agatha was being grievously tortured in the breasts, she~
said to the judge
* Thou foul, cruel, and bloody tyrant, art thou not ashamed to do this to me,~
having thyself sucked at a mother's breast?
V. I have breasts within, which have been the Lord's from my childhood, and them~
thou canst not mangle.
R. Thou foul, cruel, and bloody tyrant, art thou not ashamed to do this to me,~
having thyself sucked at a mother's breast?

[LectioE]
v. Continuation of the Holy Gospel according to Matthew
!Matt 19:3-12
19:3 And there came to him the Pharisees tempting him, and saying: Is it lawful for a man to put away his wife for every cause?
19:4 Who answering, said to them: Have ye not read, that he who made man from the beginning, Made them male and female? And he said:
19:5 For this cause shall a man leave father and mother, and shall cleave to his wife, and they two shall be in one flesh.
19:6 Therefore now they are not two, but one flesh. What therefore God hath joined together, let no man put asunder.
19:7 They say to him: Why then did Moses command to give a bill of divorce, and to put away?
19:8 He saith to them: Because Moses by reason of the hardness of your heart permitted you to put away your wives: but from the beginning it was not so.
19:9 And I say to you, that whosoever shall put away his wife, except it be for fornication, and shall marry another, committeth adultery: and he that shall marry her that is put away, committeth adultery.
19:10 His disciples say unto him: If the case of a man with his wife be so, it is not expedient to marry.
19:11 Who said to them: All men take not this word, but they to whom it is given.
19:12 For there are eunuchs, who were born so from their mother's womb: and there are eunuchs, who were made so by men: and there are eunuchs, who have made themselves eunuchs for the kingdom of heaven. He that can take, let him take it.
$Te decet
