[Ant Matutinum]
O how admirable is thy name O Lord! Through whose strength the blessed virgin Scholastica merited to obtain a prodigious fall of rain.;;8
The heavens show forth the glory of God and announce the merits of the holy virgin Scholastica.;;18
She received a blessing from the Lord, and mercy from God her Saviour.;;23
Thou hast loved justice, and hated iniquity: therefore God, thy God, hath anointed thee with the oil of gladness.;;44
The stream of the river maketh joyful Scholastica the spouse of God.;;45
Surround Scholastica, and tell of her excellence.;;47
V. In thy comeliness and thy beauty.
R. Go forward, fare prosperously, and reign.
The Lord gave Scholastica his blessing: and the earth shall yield her fruit.;;84
All who rejoice find their home in you, O blessed mother Scholastica.;;86
Praise and beauty are before the Lord: Scholastica his bride holiness and majesty in his sanctuary.;;95
God’s lightnings flashed forth when the holy virgin Scholastica prayed to him.;;96
Sing ye to the Lord a new canticle: because he hath done wonderful things through his daughter Scholastica.;;97
Scholastica called upon the Lord, and he heard her.;;98
V. God shall help her with his strength.
R. God is in the midst of her, she shall not be moved.
The Lord as a bridegroom decked Scholastica with a crown, and as a bride adorned with her jewels.;;249;250;251
V. God hath chosen her and forechosen her.
R. He hath made her to dwell in His tabernacle.

[Responsory1]
R. The venerable Scholastica the sister of the most holy father Benedict
* Being from her very infancy consecrated to almighty God never left the path of righteousness.
V. O ye children praise the Lord praise ye the name of the Lord.
R. Being from her very infancy consecrated to almighty God never left the path of righteousness.

[Responsory2]
R. Anxious to be trained by the saintly life and the words of his holy teaching she used to visit him once a year:
* And the man of God instructed her in heavenly doctrine.
V. Blessed is he that heareth Benedict’s words and keepeth those things which he hath written.
R. And the man of God instructed her in heavenly doctrine.

[Lectio3]
@Sancti/07-22:Lectio2:s/1-/3-/ s/1 .*3/3/s
@Sancti/07-22:Lectio3:s/.*5/5/s s/Under .*//s

[Responsory3]
R. The holy virgin Scholastica like a watered garden
* Was enriched with the ceaseless dew of heaven’s graces.
V. Like a fountain of water whose stream shall not fail.
R. Was enriched with the ceaseless dew of heaven’s graces.

[Responsory4]
R. And as they were yet sitting at the table, the holy Nun his sister entreated him,
* That they might stay there all night, discoursing of the joys of heaven.
V. But the servant of God, admiring her petition, did not want to remain outside of his monastery cell.
R. That they might stay there all night, discoursing of the joys of heaven.

[Lectio5]
@Sancti/02-10:Lectio4:s/sky.*/sky./s

[Responsory5]
R. A certain day, according to her custom, she came and her venerable brother came down from his monastery with his monks:
* And they spent the whole day praising God, and then they ate food.
V. Behold how good and how pleasant it is for brethren to dwell together in unity.
R. And they spent the whole day praising God, and then they ate food.

[Lectio6]
@Sancti/02-10:Lectio4:s/.*sky. //s s/$/~/
@Sancti/02-10:Lectio5:s/When the man.*//s

[Responsory6]
R. And when after a flood of tears she lifted up her head, thunder and lightning erupted
* Thence the venerable Benedict and those who came with him watched all night giving honour of God.
V. So efficacious were the tears of the blessed one that through her clear sky was turned to rain.
R. Thence the venerable Benedict and those who came with him watched all night giving honour of God.

[Lectio7]
When the man of God saw that he could not return to his monastery, because of the lightnings, and thunderings, and the great rain, he was sorrowful and grieved, saying Almighty God forgive thee, my sister; what is this that thou hast done? She answered him Behold, I besought thee, and thou wouldest not hear; I besought my God, and He hath heard me; if, therefore, thou wilt, go forth, leave me alone, and go thy way to thy monastery. But he could not, and so he tarried in the same place, not willingly, but of necessity. And so it came to pass that they slept not all that night, but fed one another with discourse on spiritual things.

[Responsory7]
R. The Lord granted her the desire of her heart:
* And from him she obtained what her brother refused.
V. The Lord is good to all them that trust in him to the soul that seeketh him.
R. And from him she obtained what her brother refused.

[Lectio8]
And when the morning was come, the worshipful woman arose, and went unto her own cell, and the man of God went back to his monastery. And, behold, after three days he was sitting in his cell, and he lifted up his eyes to heaven, and saw the soul of his sister, delivered from the body, fly to heaven in a bodily shape like a dove. Wherefore he rejoiced because of the glory that was revealed in her, and gave thanks to Almighty God in hymns and praises, and made known to the brethren that she was dead. He commanded them also to go and take up her body, and bring it to his monastery, and lay it in the grave which he had made ready for himself. Whereby it came to pass that they twain who had ever been of one mind in the Lord, even in death were not divided.

[Responsory8]
R. The Bridegroom tarrying, Scholastica moaned saying:
* Who will give me the wings of a dove and I will fly and take my rest.
V. Lo my beloved speaketh unto me: Arise my love and come.
R. Who will give me the wings of a dove and I will fly and take my rest.

[Lectio9]
From the Holy Gospel according to Matthew
!Matt 25:1-13.
At that time Jesus spoke to his disciples this parable: "Then will the kingdom of heaven be like ten virgins who took their lamps and went forth to meet the bridegroom and the bride." And so forth.
_
Homily by St. Hilary, Bishop (of Poitiers.)
!Comment, on Matth.
Our Lord and God in the body is the bridegroom and the bride. For as the spirit is the bridegroom of the flesh, so the flesh is the bride of the spirit. At length at the sounding of the trumpet the virgins went forth to meet the bridegroom alone; for now now the two were one, because the lowliness of the body had been drawn beyond itself into spiritual glory. By our first progress, by the duties of this life, we are prepared to hasten to the resurrection from the dead. The lamps are the light of shining souls, made brilliant by the Sacrament of Baptism. The oil is the fruit of good works. The vessels are the human bodies, in the interior of which the treasure of a good conscience lies hidden. The sellers are those who are in need of the mercy of the faithful, yet of themselves give ample return for the help which they seek, namely, the relief of their necessity, by selling, as it were, their knowledge of our good works. For these are the plentiful fuel for the unfailing light which must be purchased with the fruits of mercy and stored up.

[Responsory9]
R. Saint Benedict, three days after, standing in his cell, and lifting up his eyes to heaven, beheld the soul of his sister (which was departed from her body),
* In the likeness of a dove to ascend into heaven.
V. Who rejoicing much to see her great glory, with hymns and lauds gave thanks to almighty God, and did impart the news of this her death to his monks.
R. In the likeness of a dove to ascend into heaven.

[Lectio10]
The wedding itself is the assumption of immortality and the union in a new state between corruption and incorruption. The delay of the bridegroom is the repose of those who believe; and in the time of penance this sleep is the temporary death of all. The cry in the middle of the night, when all are unaware, is the voice of the trumpet preceding the coming of the Lord and rousing all to go forth to meet the bridegroorn. The taking up of the lamps signifies the return of the soul into the bodies, and the light of the lamps, which is contained in the vessels of the bodies, is the consciousness of good works shining forth.

[Responsory10]
R. Scholastica’s soul was seen in the form of a dove and the brother’s glad heart sang hymns and praises beyond measure:
* Blessed be such a departure and still more blessed such an entrance!
V. Father Benedict was filled with heavenly joy.
R. Blessed be such a departure and still more blessed such an entrance!

[Lectio11]
Those who, while in the body, have taken advantage of the opportune time for working and have prepared to go forth immediately at the coming of the bridegroom are the prudent virgins. The foolish ones are they who, careless and negligent, cared only for the things of the present, and, unmindful of the Lord’s promises, have not concerned themselves with any hope of the resurrection. And now, because they could not go out to meet the bridegroom with unlighted lamps, they besought those who were prudent to lend them oil. But these answered that they could not give any, lest perhaps there would not be enough for all. By this is signified that no one can be helped by the works and merits of others, since it is necessary that each one buy oil for his own lamp. The wise exhorted the foolish to return and buy oil, in order that, although late in observing the precepts of God, they might, with lamps lighted, perhaps be made worthy for the coming of the bridegroom.

[Responsory11]
R. Scholastica’s soul went forth like a dove from the ark of her body bearing an olive branch the sign of peace and grace.
* She took her flight to heaven.
V. She found not whereon to rest her feet. 
R. She took her flight to heaven.

[Lectio12]
Whilst the foolish were thus delayed, the bridegroom came; and the wise ones, who were encircled by the carefully prepared light of their lamps, entered with him to the wedding at feast; that is, they once entered into heavenly glory at the coming of the majesty of the Lord. And because there is now no time for penance, the foolish hasten and ask that the door be opened to them. To whom the bridegroom makes answer that he does not know them. These were not at the ceremony of the Lord's coming, neither had they hastened at the sound of the trumpet warning them, neither had they joined the company of those entering with the bridegroom, but, by delaying, had wasted their time and so were unworthy of entering into the wedding feast.

[Responsory12]
R. You who in the appearance of a dove learnt today the mystery of how to ascend to heaven
* Help us to live so innocently that we may be able to live what you have loved.
V. You who in your childish years was covered with the sacred veil, and knew the mysteries of heaven.
R. Help us to live so innocently that we may be able to live what you have loved.

[Capitulum Laudes]
@Sancti/02-11:Capitulum Laudes
_
R.br. In thy comeliness * and in thy beauty.
R. In thy comeliness * and in thy beauty.
V. Go forward, fare prosperously, and reign.
R. In thy beauty.
&Gloria
R. In thy comeliness * and in thy beauty.