[Ant Matutinum]
@CommuneM/C11::s/After thy.*/The Angel of the Lord announced unto Mary, and she conceived of the Holy Spirit.;;97/

[Responsory4]
R. When she heard this she was troubled at his words, and thought with herself what manner of salutation this should be.
* And the angel said unto her.
V. Fear not, Mary, for thou hast found grace with God.
R. And the angel said unto her.

[Responsory7]
R. And Mary said to the angel: How shall this be done, because I know not man? And the angel answering, said to her.
V. The Holy Ghost shall come upon thee, and the power of the most High shall overshadow thee.
R. And the angel answering, said to her.

[Lectio8]
For though the true mercy of God had infinitely many schemes to hand for the restoration of mankind, it chose that particular design which put in force for destroying the devil's work, not the efficacy of might but the dictates of justice. For the pride of the ancient foe not undeservedly made good its despotic rights over all men, and with no unwarrantable supremacy tyrannized over those who had been of their own accord lured away from God's commands to be the slaves of his will. And so there would be no justice in his losing the immemorial slavery of the human race, were he not conquered by that which he had subjugated.

[Responsory8]
R. And Mary said: Behold the handmaid of the Lord; Be it done to me according to thy word.
V. Blessed art thou among women, and blessed is the fruit of thy womb.
R. Be it done to me according to thy word.

[Ant Matutinum 3N]
The angel Gabriel * spoke unto Mary saying: Hail, full of grace, the Lord is with thee: blessed art thou among women.

[Responsory9]
R. All generations shall call me blessed.
* For He That is Mighty, even the Lord, hath done to me great things; and Holy is His Name.
V. My soul doth magnify the Lord. And my spirit hath rejoiced in God my Saviour.
R. For He That is Mighty, even the Lord, hath done to me great things; and Holy is His Name.

[Lectio10]
And the Scripture clearly demonstrates that she would be both espoused and a virgin: a virgin, that it might be clear that she was free from intercourse with man; espoused, lest she be seared by the infamy of violated virginity, to which desecration the pregnant womb would plainly seem to point.  For the Lord preferred that some should be in doubt rather about the manner of His birth than about the purity of His mother. For he knew the delicate reserve of the Virgin and the elusive fame of modesty, and He did not think that faith in His birth should be built up by injuries to His mother.

[LectioE]
Continuation ++ of the Holy Gospel according to Luke
!Luke 1:26-38
At that time, the angel Gabriel was sent from God to a town of Galilee called Nazareth, to a virgin betrothed to a man named Joseph, of the house of David, and the virgin’s name was Mary. And when the angel had come to her, he said, Hail, full of grace, the Lord is with you. Blessed are you among women. When she had heard him she was troubled at his word, and kept pondering what manner of greeting this might be. And the angel said to her, Do not be afraid, Mary, for you have found grace with God. Behold, you shall conceive in your womb and shall bring forth a Son; and you shall call His name Jesus. He shall be great, and shall be called the Son of the Most High; and the Lord God will give Him the throne of David His father, and He shall be king over the house of Jacob forever; and of His kingdom there shall be no end. But Mary said to the angel, How shall this happen, since I do not know man? And the angel answered and said to her, The Holy Spirit shall come upon you, and the power of the Most High shall overshadow you; and therefore the Holy One to be born shall be called the Son of God. And behold, Elizabeth your kinswoman also has conceived a son in her old age, and she who was called barren is now in her sixth month; for nothing shall be impossible with God. But Mary said, Behold the handmaid of the Lord; be it done to me according to your word.

