[Hymnus Matutinum]
O mother Anne, rejoice!
O mother blest, applaud:
Your daughter has been born today:
The Mother of our God.
_
The Virgin Mary born!
A new parental bliss!
Rejoice, rejoice with Joachim
For such a babe as this!
_
Your daughter is the first
Of blessings we receive,
Renewing earth whose early dawn
Was cursed because of Eve.
_
And so we give you praise,
And banners raise today,
And ask that through your holy prayers
Our sins be washed away.
_
To God the Father, praise,
And glory to the Son,
And honor to the Spirit bright:
Blest Trinity in One.
Amen.

[Responsory1]
R. O shining stem of David, beating down like a ray of sun,
* From which came forth Joachim and Anna gleaming with extraordinary merit.
V. Truly renowned and worthy offspring, greatly beloved of all the world.
R. From which came forth Joachim and Anna gleaming with extraordinary merit.

[Lectio4]
Sermon of St Leo, Pope
!#
The Divine goodness, dearly beloved, has indeed always taken thought for mankind in various manners, and in many portions, and of His mercy has imparted many gifts of His providence to the ages of old; but in these last times has exceeded all the abundance of His usual kindness, when in Christ the very Mercy has descended to sinners, the very Truth to those that are astray, the very Life to those that are dead: so that Word, which is co-eternal and co-equal with the Father, might take our humble nature into union with His Godhead, and, being born God of God, might also be born Man of man. Hence the Lord says through Isaiah: behold a virgin shall conceive in her womb, and shall bear a Son, and His Name shall be called Emmanuel, which is interpreted, God with us and again, a rod shall come forth from the root of Jesse, and a flower shall arise from his root. In which rod, no doubt the blessed Virgin Mary is predicted, who sprung from the stock of Jesse and David and fecundated by the Holy Ghost, brought forth a new flower of human flesh, becoming a virgin-mother.

[Capitulum Sexta]
!Isa 56:7
v. I will bring them into my holy mount, and will make them joyful in my house of prayer: their holocausts, and their victims shall please me upon my altar.
$Deo gratias

[Capitulum Nona]
!Eccli. 2:19
v. They that fear the Lord, will seek after the things that are well pleasing to him: and they that love him, shall be filled with his law.
$Deo gratias
