
[Ant Matutinum]
Father, whither goest thou * without thy son? Holy Priest, dost thou fare hence without a Deacon?;;1
Leave me not, holy father, * for I have spent already thy treasures, which thou gavest unto me.;;2
I leave thee not, my son, neither forsake thee; * there awaiteth thee for Christ's truth a sterner wrestling than mine.;;4
The blessed Lawrence prayed * and said: O Lord Jesus Christ, God of God, take pity upon me thy servant.;;5
Romanus said * to Blessed Lawrence: I see in front of thee a very well - favoured young man; make haste to baptize me.;;8
The blessed Lawrence said: The darkness is no darkness to me, * but the night is all as clear as morning, that shineth more and more unto the perfect day.;;10
V. Thou hast crowned him with glory and honour, O Lord.
R. And madest him to have dominion over the works of thy hands.
They laid him upon the grating, and stretched out his limbs. * Christ's Levite held in derision them that brought the live coals.;;14
Thou hast tried me with fire, * and found no wickedness in me.;;16
When I was asked, I acknowledged thee to be the Lord now that I am roasted, I give thee thanks.;;20
I worship my God, * and I serve Him alone.;;23
He hath dispersed and gave to the poor; * his justice shall remain in ages of ages.;;63
I am thy protector, do not fear; * if you pass through fire, the flame will not harm thee, and the scent of fire will not be upon thee.;;91
V. O Lord, Thou hast set a crown of precious stones.
R. Upon his head.
Unless the grain of wheat * falls to the ground and dies, it only remains as such.;;256;257;258
V. His glory is great in thy salvation.
R. Honour and great majesty shalt Thou lay upon him.

[LectioE]
v. Continuation of the Holy Gospel according to John
!John 12:24-26
12:24 Amen, amen I say to you, unless the grain of wheat falling into the ground die,
12:25 Itself remaineth alone. But if it die, it bringeth forth much fruit. He that loveth his life shall lose it; and he that hateth his life in this world, keepeth it unto life eternal.
12:26 If any man minister to me, let him follow me; and where I am, there also shall my minister be. If any man minister to me, him will my Father honour.
$Te decet
