[Ant Matutinum]
The holy Mother of God is exalted over choirs of Angels * into the heavenly kingdom. O Lord our Ruler;;8
Through thee have the gates of Paradise been thrown open to us, * O thou who this day dost triumph so gloriously among the Angels;;18
Blessed art thou among women, * and blessed is the Fruit of thy womb;;23
In thy comeliness and thy beauty, * go forward, fare prosperously, and reign.;;44
God shall give her the help of His countenance; * God is in the midst of her, she shall not be moved;;45
Favus distillans * labia tua, Sponsa, mel et lac sub lingua tua: et odor vestimenturom tuorum sicut odoris thuris;;47
V. The holy Mother of God is exalted
R. Over choirs of Angels into the heavenly kingdom.
Fons hortorum * puteus aquarum viventium, quae fluunt impetu de Libano;;84
O Holy Mother of God * all we who dwell in thee are in gladness;;86
O Virgin Mary, thou hast trampled down all the heresies in the wholeworld.;;95
Holy Virgin, my praise by thee accepted be; * give me strength against thine enemies;;96
After thy delivery thou still remainest a virgin * undefiled; Mother of God, pray for us;;97
Descendi * in hortum nucum, ut viderem poma convallium, et inspicerem, si floruisset vinea, et germinassent mala punica, alleluia;;98
V. Mary hath been taken to heaven the Angels rejoice
R. They praise and bless the Lord.
Hortus conclusus * es Dei Genitrix, fons signatus: surge propera, amica mea, et veni;;249;250;251
V. The Virgin Mary hath been taken into the chamber on high.
R. Where the King of kings sitteth on a throne amid the stars.

[Responsory9]
R. O holy Virgin Mary, happy indeed art thou, and right worthy of all praise
* For out of thee rose the Sun of righteousness, even Christ our God.
V. Pray for the people, plead for the clergy, make intercession for all women vowed to God. Let all that are making this holy memorial of thee feel the might of thine assistance.
R. For out of thee rose the Sun of righteousness, even Christ our God.
&Gloria
R. For out of thee rose the Sun of righteousness, even Christ our God.

[LectioE]
Continuation of the Holy Gospel according to Luke
!Luke 10:38-42
10:38 Now it came to pass as they went, that he entered into a certain town: and a certain woman named Martha, received him into her house.
10:39 And she had a sister called Mary, who sitting also at the Lord's feet, heard his word.
10:40 But Martha was busy about much serving. Who stood and said: Lord, hast thou no care that my sister hath left me alone to serve? speak to her therefore, that she help me.
10:41 And the Lord answering, said to her: Martha, Martha, thou art careful, and art troubled about many things:
10:42 But one thing is necessary. Mary hath chosen the best part, which shall not be taken away from her.
$Te decet
