[Lectio5]
From St John Damascene
!Life of Barlaam and Josophat
Blessed, yea, thrice blessed, are they that have them loved God, and, for his love's sake, have counted their suffering as nothing worth. For they wept and here mourned, day and night, that they might gain glory and everlasting comfort: they humbled themselves after willingly, that there they might be exalted: they afflicted the flesh with hunger and thirst and vigil, that there they might come to the pleasures and joys of Paradise.

[Responsory5]
R. O ye priests of God, bless God
* ye saints and humble of heart, praise God.
V. Sing hymns to God, ye spirits and souls of the just.
R. Ye saints and humble of heart, praise God.

[Lectio6]
By their purity of heart they became a tabernacle of the Holy Ghost, as it is written, "I will dwell in them and walk in them." They crucified themselves unto the world, that they might stand at the right hand of the Crucified: they girt their loins with truth, and alway had their lamps ready, looking for the coming of the immortal bridegroom. The eye of their mind being enlightened, they continually looked forward to that awful hour, and kept the contemplation of future happiness and everlasting punishment immovable from their hearts, and pained themselves to labour, that they might not lose eternal glory. They became passionless as the Angels, and now they weave the dance in their fellowship, whose lives also they imitated.

[Responsory6]
R. These men are saints, whom the Lord hath chosen in love unfeigned, and hath given them glory everlasting. These are they
* By the light of whose teaching the Church is glorified, even as the moon is glorified by the light of the sun.
V. Their sound is gone out through all the earth, and their words to the ends of the world.
R. By the light of whose teaching the Church is glorified, even as the moon is glorified by the light of the sun.

[Lectio7]
Blessed, yea, thrice blessed are they, because with sure spiritual vision they discerned the vanity of this present world and the uncertainty and inconstancy of mortal fortune, and cast it aside, and laid up for themselves everlasting blessings, and laid hold of that life which never faileth, nor is broken by death.

[Responsory7]
R. As gold in the furnace hath the Lord tried His chosen ones, and received them as a burnt-offering, and yet a while, and they shall be regarded
* For the grace of God, and His peace, are with His chosen.
V. They that put their trust in Him shall understand the truth and such as be faithful in love shall abide with Him.
R. For the grace of God, and His peace, are with His chosen.

[Lectio8]
These then are the marvellous holy men whose with their examples we, that are poor and vile, strive to imitate, contrast but cannot attain to the high level of the life of these heavenly citizens. Nevertheless, so far as is in misery possible for our weakness and feeble power, we take of this assured that this holy profession is a means to perfection and an aid to the incorruption given us by holy baptism.

[Responsory8]
R. Because of the covenant of the Lord, and the laws of their fathers, the Saints of God abode in brotherly love,
* For one spirit and one faith was ever in them.
V. Behold how good and how pleasant it is for brethren to dwell together in unity.
R. For one spirit and one faith was ever in them.

[Lectio9]
Reading from the Holy Gospel according to Matthew
!Mt 19:27-29
At that time Peter said to Jesus: Behold we have left all things, and have followed thee: what therefore shall we have? And so on.
_
From a homily of St Bernard, abbot
!Sermon of St Bernard on St Benedict
Brethren, you have just heard our Lord making a promise to His disciples, saying to them: "You shall sit on seats, judging the twelve tribes of Israel." Behold, the restfulness of being seated and the honor of passing judgment are promised. Now our Lord Himself was unwilling to receive these rewards except by humility and labor. Wherefore He was condemned to a most shameful death, loaded with torments, filled with opprobrium. So has He done, together with all who imitate Him in journeying on the way, in order that the enemy might be confounded. He it is, O wicked creature, He it is who will be seated on the throne of His Majesty, like to the Most High and equal to Him. The angels considered this when, at the fall of the evil one, they did not consent to his apostasy, thereby leaving us an example that as they chose to serve, so should we.

[Lectio10]
Let those who fly labor and seek honor know that they imitate him who sought for himself power and majesty; and if the devil's crime does not terrify them, his punishment should. The saints of God, who indeed wilt be seated in judgment, have given us an example of prudence in avoiding these vices. They, I say, in their own esteem, wretched worms of the earth, will sit in judgment. "Do you not know," says the Apostle, "that we shall judge even the angels?" They indeed who went forth weeping, sowing their seed, will come with joy carrying their sheaves. They who have sown labor and humility reap honor and rest. Because "for their double confusion and shame they wilt receive double in their land." Wherefore also a certain one has said: "Behold my lowliness and sorrow."

[Lectio11]
Not only that life itself, but also the promises of eternal life and the eager anticipation of it, are a joy for the just, and, a joy so great that anything to be desired cannot be compared with it. At the time when the followers of the wisdom of this world, which is indeed foolishness in God's sight, and of the prudence of the flesh, which worketh death and is inimical to God, withdrew from Christ, the holy apostles, when they clung to our Lord, sowed for us the seed of prudence. Manifestly, the martyrs sowed fortitude; the confessors followed justice throughout their lives. The same comparison exists between the martyrs and confessors as between Peter leaving all things, and Abraham using the wealth of this world for good purposes. For as the martyrs, having become perfect in a short time, filled out for a long time, so did the confessors endure long and varied martyrdoms. Plainly, the virgins who thus trod upon lust sowed temperance.

[Lectio12]
Our heavenly father, guide, master, and legislator, Benedict, also instructs us in this doctrine and directs our steps along the way of peace. Moreover, he strengthens and animates us for a life of justice in such a way that we are so much the more impelled to practice what he taught as we are certain that he taught not otherwise than he acted. The example of works is indeed a living and effective sermon, since it makes what is spoken most persuasive, showing that that which is urged is possible. In this regard his sanctity comforts us, his piety instructs us, his justice strengthens us. With what great piety was he not animated who provided not only for his children present, but was also solicitous for those of the future! He nourishes us by his life, his teaching, and by his intercession. Being always thus helped, dearly beloved, become fruitful; since for this were you appointed, "that you should go and bring forth fruit." Let us imitate him, because for this end he came, that he might give us the example and show us the way.

[Responsory12]
R. Their bodies are buried in peace,
* And their name liveth unto generation and generation.
V. Let the people shew forth the wisdom of the saints, and the church declare their praise.
R. And their name liveth unto generation and generation.
