[Ant Matutinum]
The Lord saw Peter and Andrew, * and He called them;;18
Follow Me, and I will make you fishers of men, * saith the Lord;;33
And they left their nets, * and followed the Lord their Saviour;;44
Whom the Lord called to be His Apostle, * when he was by the sea, him also He counted worthy to be His martyr. Alleluia;;46
Andrew was to the Lord as a sweet savour, * which He loved exceedingly;;60
The blessed Andrew hung alive upon the cross for two days * for Christ's Name's sake, and, all the while, he taught the people;;63
V. Their sound hath gone forth into all the earth
R. And their words unto the ends of the world.
Suffer not thy servant, O Lord, to be parted from thee * the hour is come to lay my body in the earth, and for thee to bid me come unto thyself;;74
The Lord loved Andreas for an odour of sweetness.;;95
But Andrew besought the people * not to hinder his passion;;96
Non me permittas Domine, famulum tuum a te separari: tempus est ut commendetur terrae corpus meum, et me ad te venire jubeas;;97
Andreas vero rogabat populum, ut non impediret passionem ipsius;;98
Accipe me ab hominibus, et redde me magistro meo: ut per te me recipiat, qui per te me redemit alleluia;;100
V. Thou shalt make them princes over all the earth
R. They shall remember thy name O Lord.
Unus ex duobus * qui secuti sunt Dominum, erat Andreas, frater Simonis Petri, alleluia.;;253;254;255
V. Your friends O Lord * are made exceedingly honourable:
R. Their principality is exceedingly strengthened.

[LectioE]
v. Continuation of the Holy Gospel according to Matthew
!Matt 4:18-22
4:18 And Jesus walking by the sea of Galilee, saw two brethren, Simon who is called Peter, and Andrew his brother, casting a net into the sea (for they were fishers).
4:19 And he saith to them: Come ye after me, and I will make you to be fishers of men.
4:20 And they immediately leaving their nets, followed him.
4:21 And going on from thence, he saw other two brethren, James the son of Zebedee, and John his brother, in a ship with Zebedee their father, mending their nets: and he called them.
4:22 And they forthwith left their nets and father, and followed him.
$Te decet
