[Name]
Commune Summorum Pontificum; Si diligis

[Rule]
Prefatio=Apostolis

[Introitus]
!John 21:15-17
v. If thou lovest me, Simon Peter, feed my lambs, feed my sheep.
!Ps 29:2
v. I will extol thee, O Lord, for thou hast upheld me: and hast not made my enemies to rejoice over me.
&Gloria
v. If thou lovest me, Simon Peter, feed my lambs, feed my sheep.

[Oratio]
Kérünk Urunk, örök Pásztor, hogy szent N. (vértanud és) pápád kozbenjárására, akit Te Egyházad élére tettél, légy irgalmas nyájadhoz.
$Per Dominum

[Oratio1]
O God, who dost rescue thy Church, built on the solid Apostolic rock, from terror of the gates of hell, grant we pray, that through the intercession of blessed N. (Thy martyr and) Supreme Pontiff, it may continue in thy truth and may be fortified by continued security.
$Per Dominum

[Oratio91]
Kérünk Urunk, örök Pásztor, hogy szent N. és N. (vértanuid és) pápáid kozbenjárására, akiket Te Egyházad élére tettél, légy irgalmas nyájadhoz.
$Per Dominum

[Lectio]
Olvasmány szent Péter apostol elsõ levelébõl
!1 Pet 5:1-4; 5:10-11.
Dearly beloved brethren: The ancients therefore that are among you, I beseech, who am myself also an ancient, and a witness of the sufferings of Christ: as also a partaker of that glory which is to be revealed in time to come: Feed the flock of God which is among you, taking care of it, not by constraint, but willingly, according to God: not for filthy lucrés sake, but voluntarily: Neither as lording it over the clergy, but being made a pattern of the flock from the heart. And when the prince of pastors shall appear, you shall receive a never fading crown of glory. But the God of all grace, who hath called us into his eternal glory in Christ Jesus, after you have suffered a little, will himself perfect you, and confirm you, and establish you. To him be glory and empire for ever and ever. Amen.

[Graduale]
!Ps 106:32; 106:31
v. And let them exalt him in the church of the people: and praise him in the chair of the ancients.
V. Let the mercies of the Lord give glory to him, and his wonderful works to the children of men. Allelúja, allelúja
!Matt 16:18
v. And I say to thee: That thou art Peter; and upon this rock I will build my church, Allelúja.

[Tractus]
!Ps 106:32; 106:31
v. And let them exalt him in the church of the people: and praise him in the chair of the ancients.
V. Let the mercies of the Lord give glory to him, and his wonderful works to the children of men.
!Ps 39:10-11
v. I have declared thy justice in a great church, lo, I will not restrain my lips : O Lord, thou knowest it. I have not hid thy justice within my heart : I have declared thy truth and thy salvation.
V. I have not concealed thy mercy and thy truth from a great council.

[Evangelium]
Evangélium + szent Máté Apostol kõnyvébõl
!Matt 16:13-19
v. Amikor Jézus Fülöp Cezáreájának vidékére ért, megkérdezte tanítványaitól: "Kinek tartják az emberek az Emberfiát?" Így válaszoltak: "Van, aki Keresztelõ Jánosnak, van, aki Illésnek, Jeremiásnak vagy valamelyik másik prófétának." Jézus most hozzájuk fordult: "Hát ti mit mondtok, ki vagyok?" Simon Péter válaszolt: "Te vagy Krisztus, az élõ Isten Fia." Erre Jézus azt mondta neki: "Boldog vagy, Simon, Jónás fia, mert nem a test és vér nyilatkoztatta ki ezt neked, hanem az én mennyei Atyám. Én is mondom neked: Péter vagy, erre a sziklára építem egyházamat, s az alvilág kapui sem vesznek rajta erõt. Neked adom a mennyek országa kulcsait. Amit megkötsz a földön, a mennyben is meg lesz kötve, s amit feloldasz a földön, a mennyben is fel lesz oldva."

[Offertorium]
!Jer 1:9-10
v. Behold I have given my words in thy mouth: Lo, I have set thee over the nations, and over the kingdoms, to root up, and pull down, and to waste, and to destroy, and to build, and to plant.

[Secreta]
By the offered gifths we beseech thee, O Lord, that thou kindly enlighten thy Church, so that thy flock may everywhere progress and prosper, and thy shepherds, under thy guidance may be pleasing to thy name.
$Per Dominum

[Secreta1]
In thy kindness, O Lord, receive the gifts which we have joyfully offered thee, and grant through the intercession of blessed N., that thy Church may rejoice in soundness of faith, and ever be gladdened by days of peacefulness.
$Per Dominum

[Communio]
!Matt 16:18
v. Thou art Peter; and upon this rock I will build my church, and the gates of hell shall not prevail against it.

[Postcommunio]
Being appeased, O Lord, guide thy Church, which has been nourished by holy refreshment, that under thy direction and powerful rule it may receive increase of liberty and may continue in religious integrity.
$Per Dominum

[Postcommunio1]
Multiply, we beseech thee, O Lord, in thy Church the spirit of grace which tho hast bestowed, that by intercession of blessed N. (Thy martyr and) Supreme Pontiff, the obedience of the flock shall not fail the shepherd, nor the care of the shepherd be wanting to the flock.
$Per Dominum

