Upon the 24th day of August, were born into the better life  
_
The holy Apostle Bartholomew. He preached the Gospel of Christ in India, whence he went into the greater Armenia, where, when he had turned many to the faith, he was flayed alive by the barbarians, and beheaded by order of King Astyages, [about the year of our Lord 71,] and so finished his testimony. His sacred body was first taken to the island of Lipari, then to Benevento, and lastly to Rome, to the island in the Tiber, where it is devoutly reverenced by the veneration of the faithful. 
At Carthage, three hundred holy martyrs, in the time of the Emperors Valerian and Gallienus, among other torments applied to them the President caused a limekiln to be lighted, and producing some hot embers and incense said to them, now choose one of two things, either offer this incense to Jupiter upon these coals, or be thrown into that lime. Then they, being armed with faith, and confessing that Christ is the Son of God, threw themselves in a twinkling into the kiln, where they were burnt to powder among the lime, whence this white-robed army of the blessed has gained the name of the White Lump. 
At Nepi, [in the first century,] the holy Bishop Ptolemy, a disciple of the blessed Apostle Peter, by whom he was sent into Tuscany to preach the Gospel, and in that city fell a glorious martyr of Christ and in the same place holy Romanus, Bishop of the same city, who, as he had been the disciple of holy Ptolemy was also his comrade in his last testimony and sufferings. 
At Ostia, [in the year 230,] the holy Virgin and martyr Aurea, who was cast into the sea with a stone tied about her neck. Her body was washed up upon the shore, and was buried by blessed Nonnus. 
In Isauria, [about the year 304,] the holy martyr Tation, who was slain with the sword under President Urban, in the persecution under the Emperor Diocletian, and so received the crown of martyrdom. 
On the same day, [at the end of the first or beginning of the second century,] holy Eutychius, a disciple of the blessed Evangelist John. For preaching the Gospel he suffered in many countries imprisonment, stripes, and fire but at length fell asleep in peace. 
Also, [in the eighth century,] the holy monk George, surnamed Limniotes he rebuked the wicked Emperor Leo for breaking the holy images and burning the relics of the Saints, whereupon the Emperor commanded his hands to be cut off, and his head to be set on fire, and so as a martyr he passed away to be ever with the Lord. 
At Rouen, [in the year 683,] the holy Confessor Ouen, [Bishop of that see.] 
At Nevers, the holy Abbat Patrick. 
