[Rank]
Feria Sexta infra Hebdomadam I in Quadragesima;;Feria major;;2

[Rule]

[Lectio1]
Froh the Gospel of John
!John 4:5-42
At that time Jesus cometh therefore to a city of Samaria, which is called Sichar,~
near the land which Jacob gave to his son Joseph. And so on.
_
Homily by St Austin, Bishop (of Hippo.)
!15th Tract on John.
Jesus, wearied with His journey, the mysteries~
are beginning now. It is not for nothing that Jesus is wearied. It is not for~
nothing that the Mighty One of God is wearied. It is not for nothing that He is~
wearied Who Himself giveth Rest to all them that are weary and heavy-laden. It~
is not for nothing that He is wearied Whose absence prostrateth us, and Whose~
presence maketh us to be strong.

[Responsory1]
@TemporaM/Quad3-0:Responsory4

[Lectio2]
Jesus, therefore, being wearied with His journey, sat thus on the well and it~
was about the sixth hour. There is a depth in all these details they all have~
something to say for us to learn. Upon them we gaze. Knock, saith the Lord, and~
it shall be opened unto you. Let us knock then and, O, may He open to me and to~
you, even He Who hath spoken to us those words Knock, and it shall be opened~
unto you. (Matth. vii. 7.) It is for thy sake that Jesus was wearied with His~
journey. We find the strength of Jesus, and we find Jesus weak; yea, strong and~
weak. Strong, for In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and~
the Word was God the Same was in the beginning with God. Wouldest thou know~
again how that the Son of God is strong? All things were made by Him, and~
without Him was not anything made that was made made without effort. (John i.~
1-3.) What then is stronger than He by Whom all things were made without effort?~
Wouldest thou know His weakness? The Word was made Flesh and dwelt among us.~
Christ, strong, made thee; Christ, weak, redeemed thee. Christ, strong,~
made all things out of nothing; Christ, weak, so wrought that that that was made~
perished not. His strength hath made us, and His weakness saved us.

[Responsory2]
@TemporaM/Quad3-0:Responsory5

[Lectio3]
He then, being Himself made weak, is strength to all such as are weak, gathering~
them together, to use His own figure, even as an hen gathereth her chickens~
under her wings. O Jerusalem, Jerusalem! how often would I have gathered thy~
children together, even as an hen gathereth her chickens under her wings, and ye~
would not! (Matth. xxiii. 37.) Consider now, my brethren, in what bondage is an~
hen to her chickens. There is no other bird in whom motherhood is unmistakeable.~
We watch the sparrows building their nests under our eyes; we see swallows, and~
storks, and pigeons building theirs every day. But, unless we actually see them~
in their nests, we know not if they have little ones, or no. But the hen's~
motherhood is so much a part of herself, that even if at the minute we see not~
her children the chickens following after her, nevertheless we see by her ways~
if she be a mother.

[Responsory3]
@TemporaM/Quad3-0:Responsory6

[Ant 2]
Whosoever drinketh * of the water that I shall give him, shall never thirst.

[Oratio 2]
Lord, we beseech thee graciously to bless this our Fast, that we who are now~
outwardly denying meats to our bodies, may have power inwardly to keep our souls~
fasting from all sin.
$Per Dominum

[Ant 3]
Sir, I perceive * that Thou art a prophet our fathers worshipped in this~
mountain.

[Oratio 3]
Grant, we beseech thee, O Almighty God, that we whose trust is under the shadow~
of thy wings, may, through the help of thy power, overcome all evils that rise~
up against us.
$Per Dominum


[LectioE]
v. Continuation of the Holy Gospel according to John
!John 4:5-42
4:5 He cometh therefore to a city of Samaria, which is called Sichar, near the land which Jacob gave to his son Joseph.
4:6 Now Jacob's well was there. Jesus therefore being wearied with his journey, sat thus on the well. It was about the sixth hour.
4:7 There cometh a woman of Samaria, to draw water. Jesus saith to her: Give me to drink.
4:8 For his disciples were gone into the city to buy meats.
4:9 Then that Samaritan woman saith to him: How dost thou, being a Jew, ask of me to drink, who am a Samaritan woman? For the Jews do not communicate with the Samaritans.
4:10 Jesus answered, and said to her: If thou didst know the gift of God, and who he is that saith to thee, Give me to drink; thou perhaps wouldst have asked of him, and he would have given thee living water.
4:11 The woman saith to him: Sir, thou hast nothing wherein to draw, and the well is deep; from whence then hast thou living water?
4:12 Art thou greater than our father Jacob, who gave us the well, and drank thereof himself, and his children, and his cattle?
4:13 Jesus answered, and said to her: Whosoever drinketh of this water, shall thirst again; but he that shall drink of the water that I will give him, shall not thirst for ever:
4:14 But the water that I will give him, shall become in him a fountain of water, springing up into life everlasting.
4:15 The woman saith to him: Sir, give me this water, that I may not thirst, nor come hither to draw.
4:16 Jesus saith to her: Go, call thy husband, and come hither. 17 The woman answered, and said: I have no husband. Jesus said to her: Thou hast said well, I have no husband:
4:18 For thou hast had five husbands: and he whom thou now hast, is not thy husband. This thou hast said truly.
4:19 The woman saith to him: Sir, I perceive that thou art a prophet.
4:20 Our fathers adored on this mountain, and you say, that at Jerusalem is the place where men must adore.
4:21 Jesus saith to her: Woman, believe me, that the hour cometh, when you shall neither on this mountain, not in Jerusalem, adore the Father.
4:22 You adore that which you know not: we adore that which we know; for salvation is of the Jews.
4:23 But the hour cometh, and now is, when the true adorers shall adore the Father in spirit and in truth. For the Father also seeketh such to adore him.
4:24 God is a spirit; and they that adore him, must adore him in spirit and in truth.
4:25 The woman saith to him: I know that the Messias cometh (who is called Christ); therefore, when he is come, he will tell us all things.
4:26 Jesus saith to her: I am he, who am speaking with thee.
4:27 And immediately his disciples came; and they wondered that he talked with the woman. Yet no man said: What seekest thou? or, why talkest thou with her?
4:28 The woman therefore left her waterpot, and went her way into the city, and saith to the men there:
4:29 Come, and see a man who has told me all things whatsoever I have done. Is not he the Christ?
4:30 They went therefore out of the city, and came unto him.
4:31 In the mean time the disciples prayed him, saying: Rabbi, eat.
4:32 But he said to them: I have meat to eat, which you know not.
4:33 The disciples therefore said one to another: Hath any man brought him to eat?
4:34 Jesus saith to them: My meat is to do the will of him that sent me, that I may perfect his work.
4:35 Do you not say, There are yet four months, and then the harvest cometh? Behold, I say to you, lift up your eyes, and see the countries; for they are white already to harvest.
4:36 And he that reapeth receiveth wages, and gathereth fruit unto life everlasting: that both he that soweth, and he that reapeth, may rejoice together.
4:37 For in this is the saying true: That it is one man that soweth, and it is another that reapeth.
4:38 I have sent you to reap that in which you did not labour: others have laboured, and you have entered into their labours.
4:39 Now of that city many of the Samaritans believed in him, for the word of the woman giving testimony: He told me all things whatsoever I have done.
4:40 So when the Samaritans were come to him, they desired that he would tarry there. And he abode there two days.
4:41 And many more believed in him because of his own word.
4:42 And they said to the woman: We now believe, not for thy saying: for we ourselves have heard him, and know that this is indeed the Saviour of the world.
$Te decet
