[Rank]
Feria Quarta infra Hebdomadam II post Octavam Paschae;;Feria;;1

[Rule]
Oratio Dominica
Una Antiphona
Feria Te Deum

[Lectio1]
Lesson from the Acts of Apostles
!Acts 20:17-24
17 And sending from Miletus to Ephesus, he called the ancients of the church.
18 And when they were come to him, and were together, he said to them: You know from the first day that I came into Asia, in what manner I have been with you, for all the time,
19 Serving the Lord with all humility, and with tears, and temptations which befell me by the conspiracies of the Jews;
20 How I have kept back nothing that was profitable to you, but have preached it to you, and taught you publicly, and from house to house,
21 Testifying both to Jews and Gentiles penance towards God, and faith in our Lord Jesus Christ.
22 And now, behold, being bound in the spirit, I go to Jerusalem: not knowing the things which shall befall me there:
23 Save that the Holy Ghost in every city witnesseth to me, saying: That bands and afflictions wait for me at Jerusalem.
24 But I fear none of these things, neither do I count my life more precious than myself, so that I may consummate my course and the ministry of the word which I received from the Lord Jesus, to testify the gospel of the grace of God.

[Responsory1]
@Tempora/Pasc0-6:Responsory1

[Lectio2]
!Acts 20:25-31
25 And now behold, I know that all you, among whom I have gone preaching the kingdom of God, shall see my face no more.
26 Wherefore I take you to witness this day, that I am clear from the blood of all men;
27 For I have not spared to declare unto you all the counsel of God.
28 Take heed to yourselves, and to the whole flock, wherein the Holy Ghost hath placed you bishops, to rule the church of God, which he hath purchased with his own blood.
29 I know that, after my departure, ravening wolves will enter in among you, not sparing the flock.
30 And of your own selves shall arise men speaking perverse things, to draw away disciples after them.
31 Therefore watch, keeping in memory, that for three years I ceased not, with tears to admonish every one of you night and day

[Responsory2]
@Tempora/Pasc0-1:Responsory2

[Lectio3]
!Acts 20:32-38
32 And now I commend you to God, and to the word of his grace, who is able to build up, and to give an inheritance among all the sanctified.
33 I have not coveted any man's silver, gold, or apparel, as
34 You yourselves know: for such things as were needful for me and them that are with me, these hands have furnished.
35 I have showed you all things, how that so labouring you ought to support the weak, and to remember the word of the Lord Jesus, how he said: It is a more blessed thing to give, rather than to receive.
36 And when he had said these things, kneeling down, he prayed with them all.
37 And there was much weeping among them all; and falling on the neck of Paul, they kissed him,
38 Being grieved most of all for the word which he had said, that they should see his face no more. And they brought him on his way to the ship.

[Responsory3]
@Tempora/Pasc0-3:Responsory1

[Ant 2]
Go, tell my brethren alleluia * that they go into Galilee, alleluia, there they shall see me, alleluia, alleluia, alleluia.

[Ant 3]
As the Father * knoweth me, and I know the Father: and I lay down my life for my sheep. alleluia.
