[Rank]
Feria II infra Octavam Ascensionis;;Semiduplex;;2;;vide Tempora/Pasc5-4

[Rank1960]
Feria II post Ascension;;Feria;;1;;vide Tempora/Pasc5-4

[Rule]
vide Tempora/Pasc5-4;
9 Lectiones
Doxology=Asc
Feria Te Deum

[Lectio1]
Olvasmány szent János apostol elsõ levelébõl
!1 John 3:1-6
1 Nézzétek, mekkora szeretettel van irántunk az Atya: Isten gyermekeinek hívnak minket, és azok is vagyunk. Azért nem ismer minket a világ, mert õt sem ismeri.
2 Szeretteim, most Isten gyermekei vagyunk, de még nem nyilvánvaló, hogy mik leszünk. Azt tudjuk, hogy ha megjelenik, hozzá leszünk hasonlók, mert látni fogjuk, amint van.
3 És mindenki, aki így remél benne, megszentelõdik, ahogyan szent õ is.
4 Mindenki, aki vétkezik, megszegi a törvényt, mert épp a törvényszegés a bûn.
5 Tudjátok, hogy õ azért jelent meg, hogy elvegye a bûnöket, s hogy benne nincs bûn.
6 Az, aki benne marad, nem vétkezik. Az, aki vétkezik, nem látta, nem ismerte meg.

[Responsory1]
@Tempora/Pasc5-4:Responsory1

[Lectio2]
!1 John 3:7-12.
7 Gyermekeim, senki se vezessen félre titeket. Aki az igazságosságot cselekszi, az igazságos, ahogy õ is igazságos.
8 Aki bûnt követ el, a sátántól való, hiszen a sátán kezdettõl fogva vétkezik. Azért jelent meg az Isten Fia, hogy a sátán mûvét romba döntse.
9 Azok, akik az Istentõl születtek, nem követnek el bûnt, mert az õ magja bennük marad, és nem vétkezhetnek, mert az Istentõl születtek.
10 Errõl ismerhetõk fel az Isten gyermekei és a sátán fiai. Aki nem az igazságosságot teszi, az nem Istentõl való. Ugyanígy az sem, aki nem szereti testvérét.
11 Mert ezt az üzenetet halljuk kezdettõl fogva: Szeressük egymást!
12 Ne tegyünk úgy, mint Káin, aki a gonosztól való volt, és megölte testvérét. Miért ölte meg? Mert az õ tettei gonoszak voltak, a testvére tettei ellenben igazak.

[Responsory2]
@Tempora/Pasc5-4:Responsory2

[Lectio3]
!1 John 3:13-18
13 Ne csodálkozzatok azon, testvérek, hogy a világ gyûlöl benneteket.
14 Mi tudjuk, hogy a halálból átmentünk az életbe, mert szeretjük testvéreinket. Aki nem szeret, a halálban marad.
15 Aki gyûlöli testvérét, gyilkos, márpedig tudjátok, hogy egy gyilkosnak sem maradandó birtoka az örök élet.
16 A szeretetet arról ismerjük fel, hogy õ életét adta értünk. Nekünk is kötelességünk életünket adni testvéreinkért.
17 Hogyan marad meg az Isten szeretete abban, aki - bár bõven van neki a világ javaiból -, mégis, amikor látja, hogy testvére szükséget szenved, elzárja elõle a szívét?
18 Gyermekeim, ne szeressünk se szóval, se nyelvvel, hanem tettel és igazsággal.

[Responsory3]
@Tempora/Pasc5-4:Responsory3

[Lectio4]
From the Sermons of St John Chrysostom, Patriarch of Constantinople.
!On the Ascension, tom 3.
Then Christ went up into heaven, He offered unto the Father the First-fruits of our nature, and the Father marvelled at the offering, seeing the Majesty of the Priest and the Spotlessness of the oblation. He received the Sacrifice into His Own hands, He made It to sit upon His Throne, nay, more, He gave It a place at His Own Right Hand. Let us ask what nature was His Who heard the words: "Sit Thou at My right hand," (Ps. cix. 1,) ” what nature was His to Whom God said " Be Thou Partaker of My Throne?" It was the same nature as was his who heard the sentence " Dust thou art, and unto dust shalt thou return." (Gen. iii. 19.) Archangels beheld our nature upon the Throne of the Lord, refulgent with eternal glory.

[Lectio5]
It was not enough of glory for Him * to be exalted above the heavens, nor to be ranked with angels but He was exalted above the heavens, He went up above the Cherubim, He ascended beyond the Seraphim, neither found He His rank beneath the Throne of the Lord of lords. Behold how high the heaven is above the earth, and the earth above hell, how high above the heaven is the heaven of heavens, how high above the heaven of heavens the Angels, above the Angels the Higher Powers, and above the Higher Powers the Throne of the Lord. Above all these hath One of our nature been exalted, so that man, which had fallen so low that there was no farther fall for him, is now in place so high, that there is thence no ascending.

[Lectio6]
Paul also, dwelling on this, saith " He That descended is the Same also That ascended up far above all heavens," even as he had said " Now, that He ascended, what is it but that He also descended first into the lower parts of the earth." (Eph. iv. 9, 10.) Learn hence Who it was That ascended, and with what nature He was exalted. And with this thought I wish to bring my sermon to an end. From the thought of that glorified Manhood let us learn with amazement what the goodness of God is that goodness which hath crowned with an honour, higher than which is none, and a glory, greater than which is none, a Person Sharer of our nature, even That Person Which this day hath taken the place which is His of right, above all things other than Himself. This day Angels and

[Lectio7]
Evangélium szent Márk Evangélista kõnyvébõl
!Mark 16:14-20
Azon idõben Jézus a tizenegynek jelent meg, amikor egyszer asztalnál ültek. Szemükre vetette hitetlenségüket és keményszívûségüket, hogy nem hittek azoknak, akik feltámadása után látták. És így tovább.
_
Homily by Pope St Gregory the Great.
!Same as before.
"So then, after the Lord Jesus had spoken unto them, He was received up into heaven, and sat on the right hand of God" We learn in the Old Testament, (4 Kings ii.) that Elijah was taken up into heaven. But this word "heaven" may mean either the terrestrial atmosphere, or the space external to the sphere of this planet. Of these the atmosphere closely surrounds the earth, and we call the birds "the fowls of the heaven," because we see them fly therein. It was only up into this that Elijah was taken, that he might be carried off suddenly into some part of the earth, to us unknown, and there live in profound peace of body and soul, until the end of the world, when he will return and pay the debt of nature. For him, therefore, death waiteth, but is not escaped. But our Redeemer made it not to wait for Him, but conquered it, and by rising again shattered it, and by His Ascension showed forth the glory of His Againrising.

[Lectio8]
We must mark also, how that Elijah was taken up in a chariot, as though to show plainly that for a mere man some outward help was needful. This help was given to him by Angels, as plainly appeareth, since it was impossible for one whom a weak nature yet weighed down earthward, to fly up even into the atmosphere. But of our Redeemer we read not that He was borne up in a chariot, or by Angels, since He by Whom all things were made, clearly rose above all things by His Own Power. He returned unto Him with Whom He was, and whither He returned, there He abode, for albeit as touching His Manhood He ascended up into heaven, yet, as touching His Godhead, He still comprehended both heaven and earth.

[Lectio9]
But as the sale of Joseph by his brethren was a type of the sale of Christ, so were the translations of Enoch and Elijah types of His Ascension. The Lord therefore had had forerunners and witnesses of His Ascension, the one before the Law, the other under the Law, that Himself might one day come, Who was able indeed to pass into the heavens. Hence also there is some difference to be observed in the manner wherein each was translated. Enoch was seen no more, (Gen. v. 24,) for God took him Elijah was carried up by a whirlwind into heaven He That came after them was not taken up, nor carried up, but went up through space by His Own Power.
&teDeum
