[Rank]
Dominica Sanctissimae Trinitatis;;Duplex I classis;;6.5

[Rule]
9 lectiones		
Psalmi Dominica
Antiphonas horas
Symbolum Athanasium
No Commemoration
Psalm5 Vespera=116
Psalm5 Vespera3=113
Prima=53

[Ant Vespera]
Holy, Holy, Holy! * Lord God Almighty. Early in the morning our song shall rise to thee Holy, Holy, Holy Merciful and Mighty God in Three Persons, Blessed Trinity;;109
Holy, Holy, Holy! * All the Saints adore thee, Casting down their golden crowns around the glassy sea Cherubim and Seraphim falling down before thee, Which wert, and art, and evermore shall be;;110
Holy, Holy, Holy * though the darkness hide thee, Though the eye of sinful man thy glory may not see, Only Thou art Holy there is none beside thee Perfect in power, in love, in purity;;111
Holy, Holy, Holy! * Lord God Almighty All thy works shall praise thy Name, in earth, and sky, and sea Holy, Holy, Holy Merciful and Mighty, God in Three Persons, Blessed Trinity;;112
Of Him, and through Him, and to Him, are all things * to Whom be glory for ever;;116

[Capitulum Vespera]
!Rom 11:33
v. Mekkora a mélysége az Isten gazdagságának, bölcsességének és tudásának! Mily kifürkészhetetlenek szándékai, mily megfoghatatlanok útjai!
$Deo gratias

[Hymnus Vespera]
v. Száll a tüzes nap lefelé,
Szívünkben, örök Napvilág,
Boldog Egység és Háromság,
Gyujtsd fel a szeretet tüzét.
_
Téged dicsér reggel dalunk,
Este is eléd járulunk.
Engedj áldanunk Tégedet,
A mennyeiek közepett.
_
Az Atyának és Fiúnak,
S Szentlélekisten, neked is,
Miképen volt, mindenkoron
És mindörökké Glória!
Ámen.

[Versum 1]
V. Bless we the Father, and the Son, and the Holy Ghost.
R. Let us praise Him and exalt Him above all for ever.

[Ant 1]
Gratias tibi Deus * gratias tibi vera et una Trinitas, una et summa Deitas, sancta et una Unitas.

[Oratio]
Almighty and everlasting God, you have given thy servants in the confession of the true faith, to acknowledge the glory of the Eternal Trinity, and to adore the unity in the power of thy Majesty; grant, that by steadfastness in this faith we may ever be defended from all adversities.
$Per Dominum

[OratioW]
O God, the Strength of all them that put their trust in thee,  mercifully accept our prayers, and because through the weakness of our mortal nature we can do no good thing without thee, grant us the help of thy grace, that in keeping of thy commandments we may please thee, both in will and deed.
$Per Dominum

[Commemoratio 1]
!Commemoratio Dominica I post Pentecostem
Ant. Speak, Lord, for thy servant heareth.
_
V. Let the evening prayer ascend unto thee, O Lord.
R. And let there descend upon us thy mercy.
_
!Könyörgés
O God, the Strength of all them that put their trust in thee, mercifully accept our prayers, and because through the weakness of our mortal nature we can do no good thing without thee, grant us the help of thy grace, that in keeping of thy commandments we may please thee, both in will and deed.
$Per Dominum

[Invit]
The True God is Unity in Trinity, and Trinity in Unity. * O come, let us worship

[Hymnus Matutinum]
v. Kegyes jóságnak Istene,
Világ gépének Mestere,
Lényegben, hatalomban egy
Személyedben három személy:
_
Nyújtsd a kelônek jobbodat,
Keljen fel józanúl a szív,
S Istennek zengje lángolón
A hála köteles dalát.
_
* Dícsérjük az örök Atyát,
Dícsérjük egyszülött Fiát,
S a Lelket, a Vigasztalót,
Most és örök idôkön át.
Ámen.

[Ant Matutinum]
Be present, O One Almighty God, Father, Son, and Holy Ghost;;8
We acknowledge that Thou art One in Being, and Three in Persons;;18
We testify that thy Being, thy Life, and thine Understanding are One and eternally unchangeable;;23
V. Bless we the Father, and the Son, and the Holy Ghost.
R. Let us praise and exalt Him above all for ever.
Upon thee do we call, thee do we praise, thee do we worship, O Blessed Trinity;;46
Thou art our Hope, Thou art our Salvation, Thou art our glory, O Blessed Trinity;;47
Be Thou our Deliverer, our Saviour, our Life-giver, O Blessed Trinity;;71
V. Blessed art Thou, O Lord, in the firmament of heaven.
R. And above all to be praised and glorified for ever.
The Father is Love; the Son is Grace; the Holy Ghost is Communion. Blessed be the Trinity;;95
The Father is Truth; the Son is Truth; the Holy Ghost is Truth. Blessed be the Trinity;;96
Third Antiphon. The Being of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost, is one. Blessed be the Trinity;;97
V. By the Word of the Lord were the heavens made.
R. And all the host of them by the Breath of His mouth.

[Lectio1]
Olvasmány Izaiás próféta könyvébõl
!Isa 6:1-4
1 Abban az esztendõben, amikor meghalt Uzija király, láttam az Urat. Magas és fönséges királyi széken ült, és uszálya betöltötte a templomot.
2 Szeráfok lebegtek fölötte: mindegyiknek hat-hat szárnya volt. Kettõvel befödték arcukat, kettõvel befödték lábukat, s kettõvel lebegtek.
3 És harsány hangon mondogatták egymásnak: "Szent, szent, szent a Seregek Ura, dicsõsége betölti az egész földet!"
4 Még a küszöbök alapjai is megrendültek harsány hangjuktól, és a templom tele lett füsttel.

[Responsory1]
R. I saw the Lord sitting upon a throne, high and lifted up, and the whole earth was full of His glory
* And His train filled the temple.
V. Above it stood the Seraphim each one had six wings.
R. And His train filled the temple.

[Lectio2]
!Isa 6:5-8
5 Erre így szóltam: "Jaj nekem, végem van, mert tisztátalan ajkú ember vagyok, és tisztátalan ajkú nép között élek, mégis szememmel láttam a Királyt, a Seregek Urát."
6 Akkor az egyik szeráf odarepült hozzám, a kezében izzó parazsat tartott, amelyet csípõvassal az oltárról vett.
7 Megérintette vele az ajkamat és így szólt: "Nos, azáltal, hogy ez megérintette ajkadat, eltûnt gonoszságod és bocsánatot nyert a bûnöd."
8 Aztán hallottam az Úr szavát, amint így szólt: "Kit küldjek el? Ki megy el nekünk?" Így válaszoltam: "Itt vagyok, engem küldj el!"

[Responsory2]
R. Blessed be the Lord God of hosts, Who only doeth wondrous things.
* And blessed be His glorious Name for ever.
V. And let the whole earth be filled with His glory. Ámen. Ámen.
R. And blessed be His glorious Name for ever.

[Lectio3]
!Isa 6:9-12
9 Erre így szólt: "Menj, mondd meg ennek a népnek: Hallván halljatok, de ne értsetek, látván lássatok, de ne fogjátok föl.
10 Tedd érzéketlenné e nép szívét, süketté a fülét, és kösd be a szemét, hogy ne lásson a szemével, ne halljon a fülével és ne értsen a szívével, s így ne térjen meg és ne gyógyuljon meg."
11 Erre megkérdeztem: "Meddig tart ez, Uram?" Így válaszolt: "Míg a városok el nem pusztulnak, s lakók nélkül nem maradnak, a házak meg emberek nélkül; míg a szántóföldek pusztává nem lesznek,
12 s az Úr messzire nem ûzi az embereket. Akkor majd nagy pusztulás lesz az országban:

[Responsory3]
R. Let God, even our own God, bless us; let God bless us.
* And let all the ends of the earth fear Him.
V. God be merciful unto us, and bless us.
R. And let all the ends of the earth fear Him.
&Gloria
R. And let all the ends of the earth fear Him.

[Lectio4]
From the Book on the Faith, addressed to Peter by St Fulgentius, Bishop [of Ruspa.]
!Found in the Works of Augustine, tom 3.
The Faith which the holy Patriarchs and Prophets received from God before His Son was made Flesh, the Faith which the holy Apostles heard from the Lord Himself when Present in the Flesh, the Faith which the same Apostles learnt by the teaching of the Holy Ghost not only to preach by word of mouth, but also to leave behind them in their writings for the healthful instruction of all that should come after, that Faith teacheth that the Trinity, that is to say, the Father, the Son, and the Holy Ghost, is but ONE God. But we could not truly call the Father, the Son, and the Holy Ghost a Trinity, if One and the Selfsame Person were named Father, Son, and Holy Ghost.

[Responsory4]
R. Who is so great a God as our God
* Thou art the God that doest wonders.
V. Thou hast declared thy strength among the people Thou hast with thine arm redeemed thy people.
R. Thou art the God that doest wonders.

[Lectio5]
Nor if as the Being of the Father, the Son, and the Holy Ghost is One Being, so were there but One Person, then were it untrue to say that God is a Trinity. On the other hand, if, as the Persons of the Father, the Son, and the Holy Ghost are distinguished One from Another by that which is proper to Each, so were They diverse by difference of nature, then were it untrue to say that God is ONE. But since concerning the nature of the One True God, Who is a Trinity, it is the Truth to say that God is ONE, and the Truth to say that God is a Trinity, therefore the True God is a Trinity in Persons, and an Unity in nature.

[Responsory5]
R. To thee be praise, to thee be glory, to thee be thanksgiving for ever and ever
* O Blessed Trinity
V. And blessed is thy glorious and Holy Name, and to be praised and exalted above all for ever.
R. O Blessed Trinity

[Lectio6]
Through this Oneness of nature All That the Father is is in the Son and the Holy Ghost, All That the Son is is in the Father and the Holy Ghost, and All That the Holy Ghost is is in the Father and the Son. Of the Father, the Son, and the Holy Ghost, None is without Other, None is before Other, None is Greater than Other,~
None is Mightier than Other. The Father, as touching the One Divine Nature, is neither before nor greater than the Son and the Holy Ghost neither is it possible that the Eternity and Infinity of the Son, whether as before or greater, should be before or greater than the Eternity and Infinity of the Spirit.

[Responsory6]
R. Great is the Lord, and greatly to be praised
* And His Wisdom is unsearchable.
V. Great is our Lord, and of great power, and His understanding is infinite.
R. And His Wisdom is unsearchable.
&Gloria
R. And His Wisdom is unsearchable.

[Lectio7]
Evangélium szent Máté Apostol kõnyvébõl
!Matt 28:18-20
18 Jézus odalépett hozzájuk, és így szólt: "Én kaptam minden hatalmat égen és földön.
19 Menjetek tehát, tegyétek tanítványommá mind a népeket! Kereszteljétek meg õket az Atya és a Fiú és a Szentlélek nevére,
20 és tanítsátok meg õket mindannak a megtartására, amit parancsoltam nektek. S én veletek vagyok mindennap, a világ végéig."
_
Homily by St Gregory of Nazianzus, Patriarch of Constantinople.
!Treatise on the Faith.
There is no Catholic but knoweth that the Father is a Very Father, the Son a Very Son, and the Holy Ghost a Very Holy Ghost, even as the Lord Himself saith unto His Apostles " Go ye and baptize all nations in the Name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost." This is that Perfect Trinity Who is but ONE being, and of Whom therefore we testify that His Substance is one. For we make no division in God, as divisions are made in bodies, but we testify, that, according to the power of the Divine Nature, Which standeth not in matter, the Persons named have a real existence, and that God is ONE.

[Responsory7]
R. Bless we the Father, and the Son, and the Holy Ghost.
* Let us praise and exalt Him above all for ever.
V. Blessed art Thou, O Lord, in the firmament of heaven, and above all to be praised and glorified for ever.
R. Let us praise and exalt Him above all for ever.

[Lectio8]
We do not say, as some have dreamt, that the Begetting of the Son of God is an outgrowing from one part to another part neither do we say that He is the Word in the sense of a mere sound uttered by a voice, but we do believe that these three Names and the Persons meant by them are all of only One Being, One Majesty,~
and One Power. And therefore we testify that God is one, because this ONE-ness of His Majesty forbiddeth that we should use the Plural form of speech and say, "Gods." It is Catholic language to say, " Father and Son," but we cannot and must not say that the Father and the Son are two gods. And that, not because the Son of God is not by Himself God yea, He is Very God of Very God but because we know that the Son of God is not from elsewhere, but from the One Father Himself, and therefore we say that God is ONE. This is the doctrine which Prophets and Apostles have delivered this is the doctrine which the Lord Himself taught when He said, " I and the Father are ONE," (John x. 30,) that is, He meant, as touching the one Divine Being, but as touching Persons, We are distinct.

[Responsory8]
R. One Seraph cried unto another
* Holy, Holy, Holy is the Lord God of hosts the whole earth is full of His glory.
V. There are Three That bear record in heaven, the Father, the Word, and the Holy Ghost and these Three are One.
R. Holy, Holy, Holy is the Lord God of hosts
&Gloria
R. The whole earth is full of His glory.

[Lectio9]
!Commemoratio for Sunday
Homily for the First Sunday after Pentecost. From the Holy Gospel according to Luke
!Luke 6:36-42
AT that time: Jesus said unto His disciples Be ye merciful, as your Father also is merciful. And so on.
_
Homily by St Austin, Bishop of Hippo
!15th Sermon on Matthew, Words of the Lord.
There are two works of mercy which free us, and which the Lord Himself hath briefly named in the Gospel " Forgive, and ye shall be forgiven give, and it shall be given unto you." " Forgive, and ye shall be forgiven " such is the promise of pardon. " Give, and it shall be given unto you " such is the promise~
of favour. As touching forgiveness thou hast trespasses which thou wouldest fain have forgiven, and them which have trespassed against thee, whom thou canst forgive. As touching favour, there are beggars that beg from thee, and thou art a beggar to God. When we pray, we are all beggars to God, standing at the door of the Great Householder, yea, falling down on our knees, and beseeching Him to give us somewhat and that somewhat is God Himself. What doth a beggar ask of thee Bread. And what dost thou ask of God but that Christ Who saith " I am the Living Bread Which came down from heaven?" If ye will be forgiven, forgive ye. If ye will be pardoned, pardon ye. If ye will receive, "give, and it shall be given unto you."
&teDeum

[Ant Laudes]
Holy, Holy, Holy! * Lord God Almighty. Early in the morning our song shall rise to thee Holy, Holy, Holy Merciful and Mighty God in Three Persons, Blessed Trinity
Holy, Holy, Holy! * All the Saints adore thee, Casting down their golden crowns around the glassy sea Cherubim and Seraphim falling down before thee, Which wert, and art, and evermore shall be.
Holy, Holy, Holy * though the darkness hide thee, Though the eye of sinful man thy glory may not see, Only Thou art Holy there is none beside thee Perfect in power, in love, in purity
Holy, Holy, Holy! * Lord God Almighty All thy works shall praise thy Name, in earth, and sky, and sea Holy, Holy, Holy Merciful and Mighty, God in Three Persons, Blessed Trinity
Of Him, and through Him, and to Him, are all things * to Whom be glory for ever.

[Capitulum Laudes]
!Rom 11:33
v. Mekkora a mélysége az Isten gazdagságának, bölcsességének és tudásának! Mily kifürkészhetetlenek szándékai, mily megfoghatatlanok útjai!
$Deo gratias

[Hymnus Laudes]
v. Ó Háromság Egysége te,
Ki mindenen uralkodol,
Halld meg az áldó éneket,
Mit virrasztván zengünk neked.
_
Ébred a hajnal csillaga,
S a felkelô fényt hirdeti,
Az éjszakák homálya hull.
Ragyogjon ránk a Tiszta Fény.
_
Dícsérjük az örök Atyát,
Dícsérjük egyszülött Fiát
S a Lelket, a Vigasztalót,
Most és örök idôkön át.
Ámen.

[Versum 2]
V. Bless we the Father, and the Son, and the Holy Ghost.
R. Let us praise and exalt Him above all for ever.

[Ant 2]
Blessed be the Holy One * the Maker and Lord of all things Blessed be the Holy and Undivided Trinity, now and always, and unto unending ages of ages.

[Commemoratio 2]
!Commemoratio Dominicae
Ant. Be ye therefore merciful, as your Father also is merciful saith the Lord.
_
V. The Lord reigneth He is clothed with majesty.
R. The Lord is clothed with strength, and has girded Himself with power.
_
!Könyörgés
O God, the Strength of all them that put their trust in thee, mercifully accept our prayers, and because through the weakness of our mortal nature we can do no good without thee, grant us the help of thy grace, that in keeping of thy commandments we may please thee, both in will and deed.
$Per Dominum

[Lectio Prima]
!1 John 5:7
v. Tehát hárman tanúskodnak: az Atya, a Fiu és a Szentlélek, és ez a három egy.

[Capitulum Tertia]
!Rom 11:33
v. Mekkora a mélysége az Isten gazdagságának, bölcsességének és tudásának! Mily kifürkészhetetlenek szándékai, mily megfoghatatlanok útjai!
$Deo gratias

[Responsory Tertia]
R.br. Bless we the Father, and the Son, and the Holy Ghost.
R. Bless we the Father, and the Son, and the Holy Ghost.
V. Let us praise and exalt Him above all for ever.
R. And the Holy Ghost.
&Gloria
R. Bless we the Father, and the Son, and the Holy Ghost.
_
V. Blessed art Thou, O Lord, in the firmament of heaven.
R. And to be praised and glorified for ever.

[Capitulum Sexta]
!2 Cor 13:13
v. Urunk, Jézus Krisztus kegyelme, Isten szeretete és a Szentlélek közössége legyen mindnyájatokkal!
$Deo gratias

[Responsory Sexta]
R.br. Blessed art Thou, O Lord, in the firmament of heaven.
R. Blessed art Thou, O Lord, in the firmament of heaven.
V. And to be praised and glorified for ever.
R. In the firmament of heaven.
&Gloria
R.Blessed art Thou, O Lord, in the firmament of heaven.
_
V. By the Word of the Lord were the heavens made.
R. And all the host of them by the Breath of His mouth.

[Capitulum Nona]
!1 John 5:7
v. Tehát hárman tanúskodnak: az Atya, a Fiu és a Szentlélek, és ez a három egy.
$Deo gratias

[Responsory Nona]
R.br. By the Word of the Lord were the heavens made.
R. By the Word of the Lord were the heavens made.
V. And all the host of them by the Breath of His mouth.
R. Were the heavens made.
&Gloria
R. By the Word of the Lord were the heavens made.
_
V. Blessed be the Name of the Lord.
R. From henceforth, now, and for ever.

[Versum 3]
V. Bless we the Father, and the Son, and the Holy Ghost.
R. Let us praise Him and exalt Him above all for ever.

[Ant 3]
With all our heart * and with all our voice do we acknowledge thee, praise thee, and bless thee, O God the Father the Unbegotten, O God the Only-Begotten Son, O God the Holy Ghost the Comforter, One Holy and Undivided Trinity To thee be glory for ever

[Commemoratio 3]
!Commemoratio Dominica I post Pentecostem
Ant. Judge not that ye be not judged for with what judgment ye judge, ye shall be judged, saith the Lord.
_
V. Let my prayer, O Lord, be set forth.
R. As incense before thee.
_
!Könyörgés.
O God, the Strength of all them that put their trust in thee, mercifully accept our prayers, and because through the weakness of our mortal nature we can do no good two hymns of the Ambrosian school translathing without thee, grant us the help of thy grace, that in keeping of thy commandments we may please thee, both in will and deed.
$Per Dominum
