[Rank]
Feria V infra Hebdomadam III Adventus;;Feria major;;2

[Rule]
Oratio Dominica

[Lectio1]
Lesson from the book of Isaias
!Isa 33:1-2
1 Woe to thee that spoilest, shalt not thou thyself also be spoiled? and thou that despisest, shalt not thyself also be despised? when thou shalt have made an end of spoiling, thou shalt be spoiled: when being wearied thou shalt cease to despise, thou shalt be despised.
2 O Lord, have mercy on us: for we have waited for thee: be thou our arm in the morning, and our salvation in the time of trouble.

[Responsory1]
R. The Lord shall go forth and fight against the nations.
* And His feet shall stand upon the mount of Olives on the east.
V. And it shall be exalted above the hills, and all nations shall flow unto it.
R. And His feet shall stand upon the mount of Olives on the east.


[Lectio2]
!Isa 33:3-6
3 At the voice of the angel the people fled, and at the lifting up thyself the nations are scattered.
4 And your spoils shall be gathered together as the locusts are gathered, as when the ditches are full of them.
5 The Lord is magnified, for he hath dwelt on high: he hath filled Sion with judgment and justice.
6 And there shall be faith in thy times: riches of salvation, wisdom and knowledge: the fear of the Lord is his treasure.

[Responsory2]
R. The Fore-runner is for us entered, even the Lamb without spot
* Made an High Priest for ever after the order of Melchisedek.
V. This is that King of Righteousness without descent, nor end of life.
R. Made an High Priest for ever after the order of Melchisedek.

[Lectio3]
!Isa 33:14-17
14 The sinners in Sion are afraid, trembling hath seized upon the hypocrites. Which of you can dwell with devouring fire? which of you shall dwell with everlasting burnings?
15 He that walketh in justices, and speaketh truth, that casteth away avarice by oppression, and shaketh his hands from all bribes, that stoppeth his ears lest he hear blood, and shutteth his eyes that he may see no evil.
16 He shall dwell on high, the fortifications of rocks shall be his highness: bread is given him, his waters are sure.
17 His eyes shall see the king in his beauty, they shall see the land far off.

[Responsory3]
R. The Gentiles shall see thy Righteous One, and all kings thy Glorious one.
* And thou shalt be called by a new name, which the mouth of the Lord hath named.
V. Thou shalt also be a crown of glory in the hand of the Lord, and a royal diadem in the hand of thy God.
R. And thou shalt be called by a new name, which the mouth of the Lord hath named.
&Gloria
R. And thou shalt be called by a new name, which the mouth of the Lord hath named.

[Ant 2]
Let your soul watch, * the Lord our God is nigh at hand.

[Ant 3]
Rejoice ye with Jerusalem, * and be glad with her, all ye that love her for ever.
