 [Rank]
Feria Secunda in Rogationibus;;Feria;;1.6

[Rule]
Una Antiphona
Laudes Litania
Doxology=Pasc

[Lectio1]
Continuation of the Holy Gospel according to Luke
!Luke 11:5-13
At that time Jesus said unto His disciples Which of you shall have a friend, and shall go unto him at midnight, and say unto him Friend, lend me three loaves. And so on.
_
Homily by St Ambrose, Bishop of Milan.
!Book vii. on Luke xi.
We gather from this commandment, among other things, that we ought to pray, not only by day, but also by night. Thou seest how that he which arose at midnight to ask three loaves of his friend, and endured in supplication, was not disappointed of that which he sought. Of what are these three loaves a figure, but of that our Mysterious Bread Which cometh down from heaven Thou seest that if thou lovest the Lord thy God, thou mayest win His bounty, not only for thyself, but for others likewise. And who can deserve more to be called our "Friend" than He Which gave His Own Body for us

[Responsory1]
R. Let now the redeemed of the Lord, Alleluia
* Say, Alleluia, Alleluia, Alleluia.
V. Let them whom He hath redeemed from the hand of the enemy, and gathered them out of the lands. 
R. Say, Alleluia, Alleluia, Alleluia.

[Lectio2]
From this Friend it was that David asked bread at midnight, and received it, as he saith "At midnight I rise to give thanks unto thee." (Ps. cxviii. 62.) Even thus did he obtain those loaves of spiritual nourishment which he still setteth before us for our refreshment. How he asked it, we know from that he saith " Every night wash I my bed." (Ps. vi. 7.) He knew that there was no fear of waking Him Who sleepeth not. (Ps. cxx. 3.) Therefore let us keep in mind the things which are written for our learning, and be instant in prayer both by day and by night, to ask pardon of our sins.

[Responsory2]
R. O sing unto the Lord. Alleluia.
* Sing unto Him. Alleluia.
V. Give unto the Lord glory and honour, give unto the Lord the glory due unto His Name.
R. Sing unto Him. Alleluia.

[Lectio3]
If David, who was such a Saint, and whose time was so taken up by the cares of a kingdom, praised the Lord seven times a day, (Ps. cxviii. 164,) and was always present with godly zeal at the morning and evening sacrifice, what ought we to do, (who have so much the more need to pray, as the weakness of our body and mind doth so much oftener make us to fall, ) that we, wearied with this pilgrimage, and worn out by the gradual waning of our earthly day, and the changes of life, that we, I say, may not be | starved of that life-giving Bread Which strengtheneth man's heart. The Lord teacheth us to be watchful, all of us, and that, not at midnight only, but always. And if He shall come in the second watch, or come in the third watch, and find them so blessed are those servants whom the Lord, when He cometh, shall find watching. (Luke xii. 37.)

[Responsory3]
R. I will declare thy Name unto my brethren. Alleluia.
* In the midst of the congregation will I praise thee. Alleluia, Alleluia.
V. I will praise thee, O Lord, among the people, and sing unto thee among the nations.
R. In the midst of the congregation will I praise thee. Alleluia, Alleluia.
&Gloria
R. In the midst of the congregation will I praise thee. Alleluia, Alleluia.

[Ant 2]
Ask, and ye shall receive * seek, and ye shall find knock, and it shall be opened unto you. Alleluia.

[Oratio 2]
Grant, we beseech thee, O Almighty God, that we who in our tribulation are yet of good cheer because of thy loving-kindness, may find thee mighty to save from all dangers.
$Per Dominum.

[Ant 3]
The Father Himself loveth you, * because ye have loved Me, and have believed in Me. Alleluia.

[Oratio 3]
O God, from Whom all good things do come, grant to us thy humble servants that by thy holy inspiration we may think those things that be good, and by thy merciful guiding may perform the same.
$Per Dominum
