[Rank]
Feria Quarta Quattuor temporum;;Semiduplex I classis;;6;;ex Pasc7-0

[Rank1960]
Feria Quarta Quattuor temporum Pentecostes;;Semiduplex I classis;;6;;ex Pasc7-0

[RankNewcal]
Feria iV post Pentecostes;;Feria;;1;;

[Rule]
ex Pasc7-0;
1 nocturn;
Psalmi Dominica;
Antiphonas horas
Hymnus Tertia
Feria Te Deum
no93

[Lectio1]
Evangélium szent János Apostol kőnyvéből
!John 6:44-52
Azon időben mondá Jézus a zsidók seregeinek: Senki sem jöhet hozzám, ha az Atya, aki küldött, nem vonzza És így tovább.
_
Homily by St Austin, Bishop of Hippo.
!26th Tract on John.
Think not that thou art drawn against thy will the soul is drawn, not willingly only, but lovingly. Neither must we be afraid lest men who are great weighers of words, and very far from understanding the things of God, should catch us up upon this Gospel doctrine of the Holy Scriptures, and should say to us How can my faith be willing if am drawn I answer Thou art not drawn as touching thy will, but by pleasure. And, now, what is being drawn by pleasure Delight thyself in the Lord, and He shall give thee the desires of thine heart. (Ps. xxxvi. 4.) There is pleasure in that heart to which the Bread That came down from heaven is sweet. The poet is allowed to say His special pleasure draweth each, but pleasure, which so draweth, is not a necessity, not a bond, but a delight how much more strongly, may we say that men are drawn to Christ, who delight in truth, who delight in blessed ness, who delight in righteousness, who delight in life everlasting, since truth and blessedness, and righteousness and everlasting life are all to be found in Christ? Or have the bod ily senses pleasure, and the spiritual senses none? If the spiritual sense have no pleasures, wherefore is it written: And the children of men shall put their trust under the shadow of thy wings. They shall be abundantly satisfied with the fatness of thy house, and Thou shalt make them drink of the river of thy pleasures. For with thee is the fountain of life, and in thy light shall we see light. (Ps. xxxv. 8.)
