[Rank]
S. Joannis Bosco Confessoris;;Duplex;;3;;vide C5

[Rule]
vide C5;
9 lectiones

[Oratio]
Oh God, who didst raise up thy blessed Confessor John, to be a father and~
teacher of youth, and didst will that through him , with the help of the Virgin~
Mary, new families should flourish in the Church, grant we pray that enkindled~
with the same fire of charity we may be strong to seek after souls and to serve~
thee alone.
$Per Dominum

[Lectio4]
John Bosco, born in the poor town of Castelnuovo d'Asti, and having lost his father at the age of two, was raised by his mother in a most saintly manner, and from his earliest years gave evidence of an extraordinary future.  Docile and pious, he had a remarkable influence over those of his own age, whose fights he soon began to settle, and whose indecent words and improper jokes he stopped.  Then he busied himself with drawing them to him by good stories, by including prayers in their games, by repeating in an attractive way the complete sermons he had heard in church, and with persuading them to receive the sacraments of Penance and of the Holy Eucharist without delay and frequently.  His unassuming manner, his affability, and his innocence drew everyone to him.  Although pressed with difficulties at home, and forced to work hard in his youth, he ardently desired with trust in God to become a priest.

[Lectio5]
His wish was fulfilled, and he went first to Chieri, and then to Turin, where under the direction of Blessed Joseph Cafasso, he made rapid progress in the science of the Saints and in the learning of moral theology.  There moved by divine grace and personal liking he began to take an interest in the youths, whom he taught the rudiments of the Christian religion.  Their number increased day by day, and notwithstanding great and persistent difficulties, under divine inspiration he made a foundation for them in that section of the city called the Valdocco, on which he began to spend all his energy.  Shortly after, with the help of the Blessed Virgin, who in a vision to him when a boy had revealed his future, John founded the Society of the Salesians, whose principal purpose was to be the saving of youthful souls for Christ.  In like manner he founded a new family of nuns, who were called the daughters of St. Mary Auxiliatrix, and who would do for poor girls what the Salesians were doing for boys.  To these he finally attached the Third Order of Salesian Cooperators, who by their piety and zeal were to assist in the educational work of the Salesians.  And so in a short time he made great contributions both to the Church and to the State.

[Lectio6]
Filled with zeal for souls, he spared himself no labour and no expense to build recreational centres for the young, orphanages, schools for working children, schools and homes for the training of the young, and churches far and wide throughout the world.  At the same time he did not stop spreading the Faith throughout the Subalpine country by word and by example, and throughout the whole of Italy, by writing and editing good books and by distributing the same, and in the foreign missions to which he sent numerous preachers.  A simple and upright man, bent on every good work, he shone with all manner of virtue, which was fostered by his intense and ardent charity.  With his mind always on God, and showered with heavenly gifts, this holy man of God was not disturbed by threats, nor tired by work, nor overwhelmed by care, nor upset by adversity.  He recommended three works of piety to his followers : to receive as frequently as possible the sacraments of Penance and of Holy Eucharist, to cultivate a devotion to St. Mary Auxiliatrix, and to be the most loyal children of the Sovereign Pontiff.  It should also be mentioned that John Bosco in very difficult circumstances went to the Pope more than once to console him in the evils coming from laws at that time passed against the Church.  With a life of such accomplishments he died on the 31st day of January, 1888.  Illustrious for his many miracles, the Supreme Pontiff, Pius XI, beatified him in 1929.  Five years later, in the nineteenth centenary of the anniversary of our redemption, he was canonized among a vast gathering come to the Eternal City from every part of the world.

[Lectio7]
From the Holy Gospel according to Matthew
!Matt 18:1-5
At that time : Came the disciples unto Jesus, saying: Who is the greatest in the kingdom of heaven?  And so on, and that which followeth.
_
Homily of St. John Chrysostom
!In cap. 18 Matt., Hom. 60
Do ye see in how many ways the Lord leadeth us on to the care of our lesser brethren?  Therefore do not say : He is only a taxpayer, or a shoemaker, or a farmer, or that he is foolish, that ye may in that way look down on him.  So that ye will not fall into such evil, reflect on how many ways he leadeth you to act humbly and take care of them.  He placed a child in their midst and said: Become like little children ; and : Whosoever receiveth one such little child for my sake, receiveth me; and: Who causeth one to sin, will suffer the severest penalties.  If therefore God so rejoiceth over a little one that hath been found, why do ye despise those for whom God is so solicitous, when ye should trade your own life for one of those little ones?  So great indeed is God's care for a soul that he did not spare his own Son.  Wherefore, I entreat you, the first thing in the morning when we go out of the house, let us have in mind this purpose and this concern, to save someone in danger.  I do not speak here of a visible danger, for this is not danger at all, but of danger to the soul, which the devil prepareth for men.

[Lectio8]
Ye say it is hard to tolerate the bad.  Ye should be joined to him in love, to lead him away from vice, to convert him and lead him back to virtue.  But he doth not follow, say ye, nor taketh he advice.  How know ye this?  Have ye exhorted him and have ye tried to correct him?  I have often exhorted, ye will say.  How often?  Once or twice.  Do ye call that very often?  Even if ye were to do it for your whole life, ye should neither stop nor despair.  Do ye not see how God always encourageth us through the Prophets, through the Apostles, and through the Evangelists?  What followeth? Do we act right?  Do we obey in everything?  Not at all.  Should there be an end, then, to admonishing?

[Lectio9]
There is indeed nothing as precious as a soul.  For what doth it profit a man if he gain the whole world, and suffer the loss of his soul?  But love of money hath destroyed and cast down everything, it hath thrust aside the fear of God, taking possession of the soul as a tyrant occupieth a fortress.  And so we neglect our own salvation and that of our children.  Great is that folly, and our children are worse than servants.  Why do I speak of servants?  If ye have a mule, ye take care to give it the best groom, one who is not worthless, nor a thief, nor a drunk, and one is not inexperienced in his work.  If, however, it is necessary to have a preceptor for your son, ye take anyone ye may meet by chance and ye give no thought to selection, although there is no profession greater than this one.  What is equal to that profession which is concerned with directing the soul and forming the mind and character of the young?  He who hath such a task should shew more diligence than any painter or sculptor.
&teDeum

[Lectio94]
The childhood of Don Bosco, who was born in a small village was marked both by~
its hardship and by his happy innocence of soul. He studied at Chieri, where in a~
short time he earned great praise for his brilliance and his virtue. Ordained~
priest, he went to Turin, where he made himself all things to all men, and~
undertook in particular the work of aiding poor and neglected boys. By providing~
them with teaching in the liberal arts and in trades and keeping them~
occupied on holidays, he strove with all his might to remove young people from~
poisonous sources of delinquency and vice. For this purpose, he established two~
congregations in the Church, one for men and one for women religious. He himself~
published many books filled with Christian wisdom. He also accomplished great~
things for the eternal salvation of unbelievers through the missionary~
enterprises of his congregations. With his mind constantly raised to God, this~
holy man never seemed to be terrified by threats, worn out by labors, oppressed~
by cares, or disturbed by adversities. He died in the year of salvation 1888~
at the age of seventy-three, and was numbered among the Saints by Pope Pius~
XI.
&teDeum
