39:1 (Unto the end, a psalm for David himself.)
39:2 With expectation I have waited for the Lord, and he was attentive to me.
39:3 And he heard my prayers, and brought me out of the pit of misery and the mire of dregs. And he set my feet upon a rock, and directed my steps.
39:4 And he put a new canticle into my mouth, a song to our God. Many shall see, and shall fear: and they shall hope in the Lord.
39:5 Blessed is the man whose trust is in the name of the Lord; and who hath not had regard to vanities, and lying follies.
39:6 Thou hast multiplied thy wonderful works, O Lord my God: and in thy thoughts there is no one like to thee. I have declared and I have spoken they are multiplied above number.
39:7 Sacrifice and oblation thou didst not desire; but thou hast pierced ears for me. Burnt offering and sin offering thou didst not require:
39:8 Then said I, Behold I come. In the head of the book it is written of me
39:9 That I should do thy will: O my God, I have desired it, and thy law in the midst of my heart.
39:10 I have declared thy justice in a great church, lo, I will not restrain my lips: O Lord, thou knowest it.
39:11 I have not hid thy justice within my heart: I have declared thy truth and thy salvation. I have not concealed thy mercy and thy truth from a great council.
39:12 Withhold not thou, O Lord, thy tender mercies from me: thy mercy and thy truth have always upheld me.
39:13 For evils without number have surrounded me; my iniquities have overtaken me, and I was not able to see. They are multiplied above the hairs of my head: and my heart hath forsaken me.
39:14 Be pleased, O Lord, to deliver me. look down, O Lord, to help me.
39:15 Let them be confounded and ashamed together, that seek after my soul to take it away. Let them be turned backward and be ashamed that desire evils to me.
39:16 Let them immediately bear their confusion, that say to me: 'Tis well, tis well'.
39:17 Let all that seek thee rejoice and be glad in thee: and let such as love thy salvation say always: The Lord be magnified.
39:18 But I am a beggar and poor: the Lord is careful for me. Thou art my helper and my protector: O my God, be not slack.
