(Canticum Isaiae * Isa 49:7-13)
49:7 Thus saith the Lord the redeemer of Israel, his Holy One, to the soul that is despised, * to the nation that is abhorred, to the servant of rulers.
49:7 Kings shall see, end princes shall rise up, and adore for the Lord’s sake, because he is faithful, * and for the Holy One of Israel, who hath chosen thee.
49:8 Thus saith the Lord: In an acceptable time I have heard thee, * and in the day of salvation I have helped thee.
49:8 And I have preserved thee, and given thee to be a covenant of the people, * that thou mightest raise up the earth, and possess the inheritances that were destroyed:
49:9 That thou mightest say to them that are bound: Come forth: * and to them that are in darkness: Shew yourselves.
49:9 They shall feed in the ways, * and their pastures shall be in every plain.
49:10 They shall not hunger, nor thirst, neither shall the heat nor the sun strike them: * for he that is merciful to them, shall be their shepherd, and at the fountains of waters he shall give them drink.
49:11 And I will make all my mountains a way, * and my paths shall be exalted.
49:12 Behold these shall come from afar, and behold these from the north and from the sea, * and these from the south country.
49:13 Give praise, O ye heavens, and rejoice, O earth, ye mountains, give praise with jubilation: * because the Lord hath comforted his people, and will have mercy on his poor ones.

7
Assim fala o Senhor, o Redentor e o Santo de Israel, *
ao desprezado pelos homens, ao detestado pelas nações †
ao escravo dos tiranos:
«Diante de ti se levantarão os reis *
e se prostrarão os príncipes,
por causa do Senhor que é fiel, *
do Santo de Israel que te escolheu.
8
No tempo da graça Eu te ouvi, *
no dia de salvação Eu te ajudei;
Eu te formei e destinei para renovar a aliança do povo, *
para restaurar o país e reocupar as herdades devastadas,
9
para dizer aos prisioneiros: “Saí para fora”, *
e aos que vivem nas trevas: “Vinde para a luz!”
Hão-de alimentar-se ao longo dos caminhos *
e acharão pastagem em todas as encostas.
10
Não sentirão fome nem sede, *
nem o sol ou o vento ardente cairão sobre eles,
porque Aquele que tem compaixão dele os guiará *
e os conduzirá à nascente das águas.
11
De todas as montanhas farei caminhos *
e as minhas veredas serão aplanadas.
12
Ei-los que vêm de longe: *
uns do Norte e do Poente, outros da terra de Sinim.
13
Rejubilai, ó Céus; exulta, ó terra; *
montes, soltai gritos de alegria,
porque o Senhor consola o seu povo *
e tem compaixão dos seus pobres».
