[Lectio1]
Lesson from the book of Wisdom
!Wis 9:13-19
13 For who among men is he that can know the counsel of God? or who can think what the will of God is?
14 For the thoughts of mortal men are fearful, and our counsels uncertain.
15 For the corruptible body is a load upon the soul, and the earthly habitation presseth down the mind that museth upon many things.
16 And hardly do we guess aright at things that are upon earth: and with labour do we find the things that are before us. But the things that are in heaven, who shall search out?
17 And who shall know thy thought, except thou give wisdom, and send thy Holy Spirit from above:
18 And so the ways of them that are upon earth may be corrected, and men may learn the things that please thee?
19 For by wisdom they were healed, whosoever have pleased thee, O Lord, from the beginning.

[Responsory1]
@Tempora/081-0:Responsory1

[Lectio2]
!Wis 10:1-5
1 She preserved him, that was first formed by God the father of the world, when he was created alone,
2 And she brought him out of his sin, and gave him power to govern all things.
3 But when the unjust went away from her in his anger, he perished by the fury wherewith he murdered his brother.
4 For whose cause, when water destroyed the earth, wisdom healed it again, directing the course of the just by contemptible wood.
5 Moreover when the nations had conspired together to consent to wickedness, she knew the just, and preserved him without blame to God, and kept him strong against the compassion for his son.

[Responsory2]
@Tempora/081-0:Responsory2

[Lectio3]
!Wis 10:6-9
6 She delivered the just man who fled from the wicked that were perishing, when the fire came down upon Pentapolis:
7 Whose land for a testimony of their wickedness is desolate, and smoketh to this day, and the trees bear fruits that ripen not, and a standing pillar of salt is a monument of an incredulous soul.
8 For regarding not wisdom, they did not only slip in this, that they were ignorant of good things, but they left also unto men a memorial of their folly, so that in the things in which they sinned, they could not so much as lie hid.
9 But wisdom hath delivered from sorrow them that attend upon her

[Responsory3]
@Tempora/081-0:Responsory3
