 [Rank]
Feria Quinta infra Hebdomadam IV post Octavam Paschae;;Feria;;1

[Rule]
Oratio Dominica
Una Antiphona
Feria Te Deum

[Lectio1]
Lesson from the letter of St James the Apostle
!Jas 3:1-3
1 Be ye not many masters, my brethren, knowing that you receive the greater judgment.
2 For in many things we all offend. If any man offend not in word, the same is a perfect man. He is able also with a bridle to lead about the whole body.
3 For if we put bits into the mouths of horses, that they may obey us, and we turn about their whole body.

[Responsory1]
R. If I forget thee, Alleluia, let my right hand forget me.
* If I do not remember thee, let my tongue cleave to the roof of my mouth. Alleluia, Alleluia.
V. By the rivers of Babylon there we sat down and wept, when we remembered thee, O Zion
R. If I do not remember thee, let my tongue cleave to the roof of my mouth. Alleluia, Alleluia.

[Lectio2]
!Jas 3:4-6
4 Behold also ships, whereas they are great, and are driven by strong winds, yet are they turned about with a small helm, whithersoever the force of the governor willeth.
5 Even so the tongue is indeed a little member, and boasteth great things. Behold how small a fire kindleth a great wood.
6 And the tongue is a fire, a world of iniquity.

[Responsory2]
R. The waters saw thee, O God, the waters saw thee and they were afraid.
* There was a noise as of many waters the clouds sent out a sound. Alleluia, Alleluia, Alleluia.
V. thy lightnings lightened the world the earth saw it and shook.
R. There was a noise as of many waters the clouds sent out a sound. Alleluia, Alleluia, Alleluia.
&Gloria
R. There was a noise as of many waters the clouds sent out a sound. Alleluia, Alleluia, Alleluia.

[Lectio3]
!Jas 3:6-10
6 The tongue is placed among our members, which defileth the whole body, and inflameth the wheel of our nativity, being set on fire by hell.
7 For every nature of beasts, and of birds, and of serpents, and of the rest, is tamed, and hath been tamed, by the nature of man:
8 But the tongue no man can tame, an unquiet evil, full of deadly poison.
9 By it we bless God and the Father: and by it we curse men, who are made after the likeness of God.
10 Out of the same mouth proceedeth blessing and cursing. My brethren, these things ought not so to be.

[Responsory3]
R. I will declare thy Name unto my brethren Alleluia.
* In the midst of the congregation will I praise thee Alleluia, Alleluia.
V. I will praise thee, O Lord, among the people, and sing unto thee among the nations.
R. In the midst of the congregation will I praise thee Alleluia, Alleluia.
&Gloria
R. In the midst of the congregation will I praise thee Alleluia, Alleluia.

[Ant 2]
The disciples gave the Lord a piece * of a broiled fish, and of an honeycomb. Alleluia. Alleluia

[Ant 3]
For He shall not speak of Himself; * but whatsoever He shall hear, that shall He speak and He will show you things to come. Alleluia. 