[Rank]
1Feria Tertia infra Hebdomadam II post Octavam Paschae;;Feria;;1

[Rule]
Oratio Dominica
Una Antiphona
Feria Te Deum

[Lectio1]
Lesson from the Acts of Apostles
!Acts 17:22-27
22 But Paul standing in the midst of the Areopagus, said: Ye men of Athens, I perceive that in all things you are too superstitious.
23 For passing by, and seeing your idols, I found an altar also, on which was written: To the unknown God. What therefore you worship, without knowing it, that I preach to you:
24 God, who made the world, and all things therein; he, being Lord of heaven and earth, dwelleth not in temples made with hands;
25 Neither is he served with men's hands, as though he needed any thing; seeing it is he who giveth to all life, and breath, and all things:
26 And hath made of one, all mankind, to dwell upon the whole face of the earth, determining appointed times, and the limits of their habitation.
27 That they should seek God, if happily they may feel after him or find him, although he be not far from every one of us:

[Responsory1]
@Tempora/Pasc0-3:Responsory2

[Lectio2]
!Acts 17:28-33
28 For in him we live, and move, and are; as some also of your own poets said: For we are also his offspring.
29 Being therefore the offspring of God, we must not suppose the divinity to be like unto gold, or silver, or stone, the graving of art, and device of man.
30 And God indeed having winked at the times of this ignorance, now declareth unto men, that all should every where do penance.
31 Because he hath appointed a day wherein he will judge the world in equity, by the man whom he hath appointed; giving faith to all, by raising him up from the dead.
32 And when they had heard of the resurrection of the dead, some indeed mocked, but others said: We will hear thee again concerning this matter.
33 So Paul went out from among them.

[Responsory2]
@Tempora/Pasc0-5:Responsory1

[Lectio3]
!Acts 17:34, 18:1-4
34 But certain men adhering to him, did believe; among whom was also Dionysius, the Areopagite, and a woman named Damaris, and others with them.
1 After these things, departing from Athens, he came to Corinth.
2 And finding a certain Jew, named Aquila, born in Pontus, lately come from Italy, with Priscilla his wife, (because that Claudius had commanded all Jews to depart from Rome,) he came to them.
3 And because he was of the same trade, he remained with them, and wrought; (now they were tentmakers by trade.)
4 And he reasoned in the synagogue every sabbath, bringing in the name of the Lord Jesus; and he persuaded the Jews and the Greeks.

[Responsory3]
@Tempora/Pasc0-5:Responsory2

[Ant 2]
Going therefore * teach ye all nations; baptising them in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost, alleluia.

[Ant 3]
But the hireling * and he that is not the shepherd, whose own the sheep are not, seeth the wolf coming, and leaveth the sheep, and flieth: and the wolf catcheth, and scattereth the sheep, alleluia.
