[Rank]
Dominica XII Post Pentecosten;;Semiduplex;;5

[Rule]
9 lectiones
Psalmi Dominica
Antiphonas horas
Symbolum Athanasium

[Oratio]
Almighty and merciful God, of Whose only gift it cometh that thy faithful people do unto thee true and laudable service, grant, we beseech thee, that we may so faithfully serve thee in this life, that we fail not finally to attain thy heavenly promises.
$Deo gratias

[Lectio7]
From the Holy Gospel according to Luke
!Luke 10:23-37
At that time Jesus said unto His disciples Blessed are the eyes which see the things that ye see. For I tell you that many prophets and kings have desired to see those things which ye see, and have not seen them. And so on.
_
Homily by the Venerable Bede, Priest at Jarrow.
!Bk. iii. ch. 43 on Luke x.
Blessed were the eyes not of Scribes and Pharisees, which saw but the Body of the Lord, but those eyes, eyes blessed indeed, which were able to see those things whereof it is written "Thou hast hid these things from the wise and prudent, and hast revealed them unto babes." Blessed are the eyes of those little ones unto whom it seemeth good in the eyes of the Son to reveal Himself and the Father also. Abraham rejoiced to see the day of Christ and he saw it, and was glad. (John viii. 56.) Isaiah, and Micah, and many among the Prophets, saw the glory of the Lord, wherefore also they be called Seers, but all they beheld it and hailed it afar off, seeing but as through a glass, darkly. (1 Cor. xiii. 12.)

[Lectio8]
Otherwise were the Apostles, who saw the Lord face to Face, eating with Him, and learning from Him by asking whatsoever they listed. For them there was no need to be taught by Angels, or the shifting fabric of visions. They whom Luke doth call Prophets and kings, Matthew nameth as " Prophets and righteous men " (xiii. 17.) Righteous men are indeed mighty kings, who know how to lord it over their own rebellious temptations, instead of falling under them to become their slaves.

[Responsory8]
@Tempora/Pent01-0:Responsory8

[Lectio9]
"And, behold, a certain lawyer stood up, and tempted Him, saying Master, what shall I do to inherit eternal life?" This lawyer, who stood up to ask the Lord a tempting question touching eternal life, took the subject of his asking, as I think, from the words which the Lord had just uttered, when He said "Rejoice, because your names are written in heaven" (20.) But his attempt was a proof of the truth of that which the Lord immediately added "I thank thee, O Father, Lord of heaven and earth, that Thou hast hid these things from the wise and prudent, and hast revealed them unto babes!"
&teDeum

[Ant 2]
Master, what shall I do * to inherit eternal life? He said unto him What is written in the law How readest thou And he, answering, said Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart. Alleluia.

[Versum 2]
V. The Lord reigneth He is clothed with majesty.
R. The Lord is clothed with strength, and hath girded Himself with power.

[Ant 3]
A certain man went down from Jerusalem * to Jericho, and fell among thieves, which stripped him of his raiment, and wounded him, and departed, leaving him half dead.

[Versum 3]
V. Let my prayer, O Lord, be set forth.
R. As incense before thee.
