[Rank]
Feria VI infra Hebdomadam II post Epiphaniam;;Feria;;1

[Rule]
Oratio Dominica

[Lectio1]
Lesson from the second letter of St Paul the Apostle to the Corinthians
!2 Cor 12:1-4
1 If I must glory (it is not expedient indeed): but I will come to visions and revelations of the Lord.
2 I know a man in Christ above fourteen years ago (whether in the body, I know not, or out of the body, I know not; God knoweth), such a one caught up to the third heaven.
3 And I know such a man (whether in the body, or out of the body, I know not: God knoweth):
4 That he was caught up into paradise, and heard secret words, which it is not granted to man to utter.

[Responsory1]
R. I will praise thee, O Lord my God, with all my heart, and I will glorify thy Name for evermore. 
* For great is thy mercy toward me.
V. Thou art my God, and I will praise thee; Thou art my God, and I will exalt thee.
R. For great is thy mercy toward me.

[Lectio2]
!2 Cor 12:5-9
5 For such an one I will glory; but for myself I will glory nothing, but in my infirmities.
6 For though I should have a mind to glory, I shall not be foolish; for I will say the truth. But I forbear, lest any man should think of me above that which he seeth in me, or any thing he heareth from me.
7 And lest the greatness of the revelations should exalt me, there was given me a sting of my flesh, an angel of Satan, to buffet me.
8 For which thing thrice I besought the Lord, that it might depart from me.
9 And he said to me: My grace is sufficient for thee; for power is made perfect in infirmity.

[Responsory2]
R. Great, O Lord, is thy mercy toward me.
* And Thou hast delivered my soul from the lowest hell.
V. In the day of my trouble I called upon thee, for Thou hast heard me.
R. And Thou hast delivered my soul from the lowest hell.

[Lectio3]
!2 Cor 12:9-11
9 Gladly therefore will I glory in my infirmities, that the power of Christ may dwell in me.
10 For which cause I please myself in my infirmities, in reproaches, in necessities, in persecutions, in distresses, for Christ. For when I am weak, then am I powerful.
11 I am become foolish: you have compelled me. For I ought to have been commended by you: for I have no way come short of them that are above measure apostles, although I be nothing.

[Responsory3]
R. The Lord is my refuge. 
* And my God is the stay of my trust.
V. He delivered me from the strongest of mine enemies, and the Lord was my stay.
R. And my God is the stay of my trust.
&Gloria
R. And my God is the stay of my trust.
