[Rank]
Feria secunda infra Hebdomadam III post Octavam Pentecostes;;Feria;;1

[Rule]
Oratio Dominica

[Lectio1]
Lesson from the first book of Samuel
!1 Sam 10:17-21
17 And Samuel called together the people to the Lord in Maspha:
18 And he said to the children of Israel: Thus saith the Lord the God of Israel: I brought up Israel out of Egypt, and delivered you from the hand of the Egyptians, and from the hand of all the kings who afflicted you.
19 But you this day have rejected your God, who only hath saved you out of all your evils and your tribulations: and you have said: Nay: but set a king over us. Now therefore stand before the Lord by your tribes, and by your families
20 And Samuel brought to him all the tribes of Israel, and the lot fell on the tribe of Benjamin.
21 And he brought the tribe of Benjamin and the kindreds thereof, and the lot fell upon the kindred of Metri, and it came to Saul the son of Cis.

[Responsory1]
R. Remember, O Lord, thy covenant, and say unto the destroying Angel: Stay now thine hand
* That the land be not utterly laid waste, and that thou destroy not every living soul.
V. Even I it is that have sinned, and done evil indeed but these sheep what have they done? Let thine anger, I pray thee, O Lord, be turned away from thy people.
R. That the land be not utterly laid waste, and that Thou destroy not every living soul.

[Lectio2]
!1 Sam 10:21-24
21 They sought him therefore and he was not found.
22 And after this they consulted the Lord whether he would come thither. And the Lord answered: Behold he is hidden at home.
23 And they ran and fetched him thence: and he stood in the midst of the people, and he was higher than any of the people from the shoulders and upward.
24 And Samuel said to all the people: Surely you see him whom the Lord hath chosen, that there is none like him among all the people. And all the people cried and said: God save the king.

[Responsory2]
R. O Lord, Thou hast hearkened unto the prayer of thy servant, that I might build a temple unto thy Name,
* O God of Israel, bless Thou, and hallow this house for ever
V. O Lord, Who keepest covenant with thy servants that walk before thee in all their heart.
R. O God of Israel, bless Thou, and hallow this house for ever

[Lectio3]
!1 Sam 10:25-27
25 And Samuel told the people the law of the kingdom, and wrote it in a book, and laid it up before the Lord: and Samuel sent away all the people, every one to his own house.
26 Saul also departed to his own house in Gabaa: and there went with him a part of the army, whose hearts God had touched.
27 But the children of Belial said: Shall this fellow be able to save us? And they despised him, and brought him no presents, but he dissembled as though he heard not.

[Responsory3]
R. Hearken, O Lord, unto the cry and to the prayer which thy servant prayeth before thee today, that thine eyes may be open and thine ears attent
* Toward this house day and night.
V. Look down from thine high and holy place, O Lord, even from heaven thy dwelling
R. Toward this house, day and night.
&Gloria
R. Toward this house, day and night.
