[Rank]
Quarta die infra Octavam S. Assumptionis;;Semiduplex;;2;;vide Sancti/08-15r

[Rule]
vide Sancti/08-15r;
9 lectiones

[Oratio]
Almighty everlasting God, who hast taken body and soul into heaven the Immaculate Virgin Mary, Mother of thy Son: grant, we beseech thee, that by steadfastly keeping heaven as our goal we may be counted worthy to join her in glory
$Per eumdem

[Commemoratio]
!Commemoratio S. Agapiti Martyris.
@Commune/C2:oratio proper
$Oremus.
May Thy Church, O God, rejoice with confidence in the pleadings of Thine Holy Martyr Agapitus, and with the help of his glorious prayers remain ever godly and stand ever secure.
$Per Dominum

[Lectio1]
Lesson from the book of Canticles
!Song 4:7-12.
7 Thou art all fair, O my love, and there is not a spot in thee. 
8 Come from Libanus, my spouse, come from Libanus, come: thou shalt be crowned from the top of Amana, from the top of Sanir and Hermon, from the dens of the lions, from the mountains of the leopards. 
9 Thou hast wounded my heart, my sister, my spouse, thou hast wounded my heart with one of thy eyes, and with one hair of thy neck. 
10 How beautiful are thy breasts, my sister, my spouse! thy breasts are more beautiful than wine, and the sweet smell of thy ointments above all aromatical spices.
11 Thy lips, my spouse, are as a dropping honeycomb, honey and milk are under thy tongue; and the smell of thy garments, as the smell of frankincense. 
12 My sister, my spouse, is a garden enclosed, a garden enclosed, a fountain sealed up. 

[Lectio2]
!Song 6:3-9; 8:5
3 Thou art beautiful, O my love, sweet and comely as Jerusalem: terrible as an army set in array. 
4 Turn away thy eyes from me, for they have made me flee away. Thy hair is as a flock of goats, that appear from Galaad. 
5 Thy teeth as a flock of sheep, which come up from the washing, all with twins, and there is none barren among them.
6 Thy cheeks are as the bark of a pomegranate, beside what is hidden within thee. 7 There are threescore queens, and fourscore concubines, and young maidens without number. 
8 One is my dove, my perfect one is but one, she is the only one of her mother, the chosen of her that bore her. The daughters saw her, and declared her most blessed: the queens and concubines, and they praised her. 
9 Who is she that cometh forth as the morning rising, fair as the moon, bright as the sun, terrible as an army set in array? 
5 Who is this that cometh up from the desert, flowing with delights, leaning upon her beloved? Under the apple tree I raised thee up: there thy mother was corrupted, there she was defloured that bore thee. 

[Lectio3]
!Song 8:6-7
6 Put me as a seal upon thy heart, as a seal upon thy arm, for love is strong as death, jealousy as hard as hell, the lamps thereof are fire and flames. 
7 Many waters cannot quench charity, neither can the floods drown it: if a man should give all the substance of his house for love, he shall despise it as nothing.

	
[Lectio4]
From the Apostolic Constitution of Pope Pius XII
All these proofs and considerations of the holy Fathers and Theologians are based upon the Sacred Scriptures as the final foundation ; they establish the blessed Mother of God before our eyes, as it were, as most closely united to her divine Son and always sharing his lot.  Therefore, it seemeth impossible to think of her who conceived Christ, gave birth to him, gave him milk, held him in her arms, and clasped him to her heart, as being, after her earthly life, separated from him in body if not in soul.  Since our Redeemer is the Son of Mary, he could surely not do otherwise, as the most perfect observer of the divine law, than to honour his most beloved Mother in addition to honouring his eternal Father.  And, since it was possible for him to give her this great honour, that she might be preserved from the corruption of the grave, we must believe that he really did so.

[Lectio5]
And this indeed should be borne in mind, that as far back as the second century the holy Fathers represented Mary as the new Eve of a new Adam, and closely joined to him (although dependently upon him) in the fight against the hellish enemy which, as already foretold in the protogospel, would end in complete victory over sin and death, which two phases are always joined in the writings of the Apostle of the Gentiles.  Wherefore, just as the essential glory of Christ's resurrection was a part and final trophy of this victory, so also the association of Mary with her Son in this common struggle was to end with the glorification of her virginal body ; for as the same Apostle saith : When this mortal shall have put on immortality, then shall be brought to pass the saying that is written, Death is swallowed up in victory.

[Lectio6]
Therefore the august Mother of God, from all eternity united in a hidden way with Jesus Christ by one and the same decree of predestination, immaculate in her conception, an inviolate virgin in her divine motherhood, the gracious cooperator of the Divine Redeemer who triumphed completely over sin and its consequences, was finally granted as the supreme crown of her privileges that she should be preserved free from the corruption of the grave, and that, like her own Son, having conquered death, she might be taken up, body and soul, to the exalted glory of heaven, where she sitteth in splendour at the right hand of her very Son, the immortal King of ages.


[Lectio7]
From the Holy Gospel according to Luke
!Luke 1:41-50
At that time : Elisabeth was filled with the Holy Ghost: and she spake out with a loud voice, and said, Blessed art thou among women.  And so on, and that which followeth.
_
A Homily by St. Peter Damian the Bishop
!In Nativitate B. Mariæ V.
O Virgin Mother of God, at whose beauty the sun and the moon stand in awe, come to the aid of them that unceasingly call upon thee, O Lady.  Turn thou unto us, o turn thou unto us, O Sulamitess, turn thou unto us, o turn thou unto us that we may behold thee, O blessed, yea more than blessed Maid, turn thou unto us in thy power.  He that is mighty hath magnified thee, and hath given thee all power in heaven and in earth.  Nothing is impossible to thee, to whom it is possible to shew the most desolate souls the hope of happiness.  For how can that Power ignore thy power, when it received its fleshly origin from thy flesh?  Thou standest before that golden altar of reconciliation, not only asking, but commanding, as mistress rather than handmaid.  Let thy nature move thee, because the more power thou art, the more merciful must thou needs be.  For it doth surely redound to the glory of power, to be unwilling to exact vengeance for wrong.  Look upon us through love ; I know, O Lady, that thou art the most blessed and that thou lovest with an unconquerable love them that in thee and through thee, thy Son and thy God hath loved with a great love.  Who knoweth how many times thou didst turn away the anger of the Judge when the virtue of justice went forth from the presence of God?

[Lectio8]
Turn thou unto us through thy very uniqueness.  In thy hands are the treasures of the Lord's mercy, and thou alone art the chosen one to whom such great grace is given.  Heaven forbid thy hand should ever weaken, for thou wilt never have to seek any occasion of saving the unfortunate or of pouring out thy mercy.  Nor doth thy glory ever grow less, but it ever increaseth, for penitents are taken back into favour, and just souls are raised into glory.  Turn thou unto us, O Sulamitess, that is, one who was despised, whose soul the sword did pierce and who hath been called the spouse of a carpenter.  And why do we ask thee to turn unto us?  So that we may behold thee.  The greatest glory after seeing God is to see thee, to cling to thee, and to dwell in the fastness of thy protection.  Hear thou us, for thy Son doth honour thee and denieth thee nothing, and he is God who is blessed forever and ever.  Amen.

[Lectio93]
!Commemoratio S. Agapito Mart.
Agapitus Prasnestinus quindecim annos natus, Aureliano imperatore, martyrii~
cupidissimus, cum propter constantiam religionis, imperatoris jussu primum~
nervis diutissime caesus, deinde in tetrum carcerem conjectus esset, ut nihil~
omnino per quatuor dies gustaret, e custodia est eductus: et ardentibus~
carbonibus capiti ejus impositis, Deo agens gratias, iterum affectus verberibus,~
nudus ita pedibus suspensus est, ut ingens fumus e subjecto igne os ejus~
obrueret. Tum fervens aqua in ejus ventrem effusa est, maxillaeque confractae.~
Quo tempore judex e tribunali lapsus, paulo post mortuus est. Ea re incenso~
imperatore, sanctura juvenem jubente feris objici, cum illge non auderent~
attingere, Praeneste gladio percussus est.
&teDeum
