[Rank]
In Cathedra S. Petri Ap. Antiochiae;;Duplex majus;;4;;ex C4

[Rank1960]
In Cathedra S. Petri Ap.;;Duplex II classis;;5;;ex C4

[RankNewcal]
In Cathedra S. Petri Ap.;;Duplex II classis;;5;;ex C4

[Rule]
ex C4;
Gloria
Credo
Prefatio=Apostolis
Sub unica conclusione

[Introitus]
!Sir 45:30
v. The Lord made a covenant of friendship with him, and made him a prince; that he should possess the dignity of priesthood forever.
!Ps 131:1
Remember, O Lord, David and all his meekness.
&Gloria
v. The Lord made a covenant of friendship with him, and made him a prince; that he should possess the dignity of priesthood forever.

[Oratio]
O God, Who when giving blessed Peter, Your Apostle, the keys of the heavenly kingdom, bestowed on him the power of binding and loosing, grant that by the help of his intercession we may be delivered from the bonds of our sins.
$Per Dominum
_
!Commemoratio S. Pauli
O God, Who taught vast numbers of the Gentiles by the preaching of the blessed~
Apostle Paul, grant, we beseech You, that by honoring his memory, we may enjoy~
the benefit of his patronal intercession with You.
$Per Dominum

[Lectio]
Olvasmány szent Péter apostol elsõ levelébõl
!1 Pet. 1:1-7
v. Péter, Jézus Krisztus apostola a zarándokoknak, akik Pontusz, Galácia, Kappadócia, Ázsia és Bitinia területén szórványokban élnek, s akiket az  Atyaisten elõretudása birtokában kiválasztott, a Lélek megszentelõ erejébõl az engedelmességre és a Jézus Krisztus vérével való meghintésre. Kegyelemben és békében bõven legyen részetek!  Legyen áldott az Isten és Urunk, Jézus Krisztus Atyja, aki minket nagy irgalmában Jézusnak a halálból való feltámadása által új életre hívott, az élõ reményre,  hogy a mennyekben elpusztíthatatlan, tiszta és soha el nem hervadó örökség várjon rátok.  Az Isten hatalma megõrzött titeket a hitben az örök üdvösségre, amely készen áll, hogy az utolsó idõben majd megnyilvánuljon.  Abban örülni fogtok, noha most egy kicsit szomorkodnotok kell, mert különféle kísértések érnek benneteket,  hogy a próbát kiállva hitetek, amely értékesebb a tûz próbálta veszendõ aranynál, Jézus Krisztus megjelenésekor méltó legyen a dicséretre, a dicsõségre és a tiszteletre. 

[Graduale]
!Ps 106:32, 31.
Let them extol him in the assembly of the people and praise him in the council of the elders.
V. Let them give thanks to the Lord for His kindness and His wondrous deeds to the children of men.Allelúja, allelúja
!Matt 16:18
That thou art Peter; and upon this rock I will build my church, Allelúja.

[Tractus]
!Ps 106:32, 31.
Let them extol him in the assembly of the people and praise him in the council of the elders.
V. Let them give thanks to the Lord for His kindness and His wondrous deeds to the children of men.
!Matt 16:18-19
You are Peter, and upon this rock I will build My Church.
V. And the gates of hell shall not prevail against it; and I will give you the keys of the kingdom of heaven.
V. Whatever you shall bind on earth shall be bound in heaven.
V. And whatever you shall loose on earth shall be loosed in heaven. In Votive Masses before Septuagesima or after Pentecost, the Gradual is said, omitting the Tract and saying the following Alleluia: Alleluia, alleluia.
V. Matt. 16:18 You are Peter, and upon this rock I will build My Church. Alleluia. In Votive Masses during Paschaltime, the Gradual and Tract are omitted and the following Alleluia is said: Alleluia, alleluia.
V. Ps 106:15 Let them give thanks to the Lord for His kindness and His wondrous deeds to the children of men. Alleluia.
V. Matt. 16:18 You are Peter, and upon this rock I will build My Church. Alleluia.

[Evangelium]
Evangélium + szent Máté Apostol kõnyvébõl
!Matt. 16:13-19
v. Amikor Jézus Fülöp Cezáreájának vidékére ért, megkérdezte tanítványaitól: "Kinek tartják az emberek az Emberfiát?"  Így válaszoltak: "Van, aki Keresztelõ Jánosnak, van, aki Illésnek, Jeremiásnak vagy valamelyik másik prófétának."  Jézus most hozzájuk fordult: "Hát ti mit mondtok, ki vagyok?"  Simon Péter válaszolt: "Te vagy Krisztus, az élõ Isten Fia."  Erre Jézus azt mondta neki: "Boldog vagy, Simon, Jónás fia, mert nem a test és vér nyilatkoztatta ki ezt neked, hanem az én mennyei Atyám.  Én is mondom neked: Péter vagy, erre a sziklára építem egyházamat, s az alvilág kapui sem vesznek rajta erõt.  Neked adom a mennyek országa kulcsait. Amit megkötsz a földön, a mennyben is meg lesz kötve, s amit feloldasz a földön, a mennyben is fel lesz oldva." 

[Offertorium]
!Matt 16:18-19
You are Peter, and upon this rock I will build My Church, and the gates of hell shall not prevail against it; and I will give you the keys of the kingdom of heaven.

[Secreta]
We beseech You, O Lord, may the prayer of the blessed Apostle, Peter, recommend the petitions and offerings of Your Church, so that what we celebrate in his honor may obtain forgiveness for us.
$Per Dominum
_
!For ST. PAUL
O Lord, make holy the offerings of Your people, through the prayer of Paul, Your Apostle, that those things which You have established as pleasing to You may be even more pleasing through his patronal intercession.
$Per Dominum

[Communio]
!Matt 16:18
You are Peter, and upon this rock I will build My Church.

[Postcommunio]
O Lord, may the gift we offer bring us joy, that as we praise Your wondrous work in Your Apostle Peter, so through him may we share Your generous forgiveness.
$Per Dominum
_
!Pro S. Paulo
Made holy by the sacrament of salvation, we beseech You, O Lord, that the~
prayers of him under whose patronal care You have granted us to be ruled may~
never fail us.
$Per Dominum

