[Name]
In Festis Beatae Mariae Virginis

[Ant Matutinum]
Blessed art thou among women, * and blessed is the fruit of thy womb. Alleluia.;;8
O Holy Mother of God * thou hast yielded a pleasant odor like the best myrrh.;;18
Sing for us again and again before this maiden's bed * the tender idylls of the play.;;23
V. In thy comeliness and thy beauty. Alleluia.
R. Go forward, fare prosperously, and reign. Alleluia.
In thy comeliness and thy beauty, * go forward, fare prosperously, and reign. Alleluia.;;44
God shall give her the help of His countenance; * God is in the midst of her, she shall not be moved.;;45
O Holy Mother of God * all we who dwell in thee are in gladness.;;86
V. God shall help her with his strength. Alleluia.
R. God is in the midst of her, she shall not be moved. Alleluia .
Joy to thee, * O Virgin Mary, thou hast trampled down all the heresies in the whole world. Alleluia.;;95
Holy Virgin, my praise by thee accepted be * give me strength against thine enemies.;;96
After thy delivery thou still remainest a virgin * undefiled; Mother of God, pray for us.;;97
V. God hath chosen her and fore-chosen her. Alleluia.
R. He hath made her to dwell in His tabernacle. Alleluia.

[Responsory1]
R. O how holy and how spotless is thy virginity I am too dull to praise thee
* For thou hast borne in thy breast Him Whom the heavens cannot contain. Alleluia.
V. Blessed art thou among women, and blessed is the fruit of thy womb.
R. For thou hast borne in thy breast Him Whom the heavens cannot contain. Alleluia.

[Responsory2]
R. Rejoice with me, all ye that love the Lord, for while I was yet a little one, I pleased the Most High.
* And I have brought forth from my bowels God and man. Alleluia
V. A11 generations shall call me blessed, since the Lord hath regarded the lowliness of His handmaiden.
R. And I have brought forth from my bowels God and man. Alleluia

[Responsory3]
R. Blessed art thou, O Virgin Mary, who hast carried the Lord, the Maker of the world.
* Thou hast borne Him Who created thee, and thou abidest a virgin for ever. Alleluia.
V. Hail, Mary, full of grace, the Lord is with thee.
R. Thou hast borne Him Who created thee, and thou abidest a virgin for ever. Alleluia.
&Gloria
R. Thou hast borne Him Who created thee, and thou abidest a virgin for ever. Alleluia.

[Responsory4]
R. I was exalted like a cedar in Lebanon, and as a cypress-tree upon Mount Zion. Like the best myrrh
* I yielded a pleasant odour. Alleluia.
V. Like cinnamon and sweet balsam.
R. I yielded a pleasant odour. Alleluia.

[Responsory5]
R. Who is this that cometh up like the sun this, comely as Jerusalem?
* The daughters of Zion saw her, and called her blessed the queens also, and they praised her. Alleluia.
V. And about her it was as the flower of roses in the spring of the year, and lilies of the valleys.
R. The daughters of Zion saw her, and called her blessed the queens also, and they praised her. Alleluia.

[Responsory6]
R. When the Lord beheld the daughter of Jerusalem adorned with her jewels, He greatly desired her beauty
* And when the daughters of Zion saw her, they cried out that she was most blessed, saying thy name is as ointment poured forth. Alleluia.
V. Upon thy right hand did stand the Queen in a vesture of gold wrought about with diverse colours.
R. And when the daughters of Zion saw her, they cried out that she was most blessed, saying thy name is as ointment poured forth. Alleluia.
&Gloria
R. And when the daughters of Zion saw her, they cried out that she was most blessed, saying thy name is as ointment poured forth. Alleluia.

[Responsory7]
R. O Holy Virgin Mary, happy indeed art thou, and right worthy of all praise
* For out of thee rose the Sun of righteousness, even Christ our God. Alleluia.
V. Pray for the people, plead for the clergy, make intercession for all women vowed to God. May all that are keeping this thine holy Feast-day feel the might of thine assistance.
R. For out of thee rose the Sun of righteousness, even Christ our God. Alleluia.

[Responsory8]
R. All generations shall call me blessed. For
* He that is mighty, even the Lord, hath done to me great things; and holy is his Name. Alleluia.
V. And his mercy is on them that fear Him, from generation to generation.
R. He that is mighty, even the Lord, hath done to me great things; and holy is his Name. Alleluia.
&Gloria
R. He that is mighty, even the Lord, hath done to me great things; and holy is his Name. Alleluia.
