[Ant 1]
La Sagesse * s'est bâti une maison, elle a taillé sept colonnes, elle s'est soumis les nations. Elle a foulé aux pieds, par sa puissance, le cou des superbes et des grands.

[Lectio1]
Lecture du livre de Proverbes
!Prov 1:1-6
1 Proverbes de Salomon, fils de David, roi d'Israël : 
2 pour connaître la sagesse et l'instruction ; pour comprendre les discours sensés ; 
3 pour acquérir une instruction éclairée, la justice, l'équité et la droiture ; 
4 pour donner aux simples le discernement ; au jeune homme la connaissance et la réflexion. 
5 Que le sage écoute, et il gagnera en savoir ; l'homme intelligent connaîtra les conseils prudents, 
6 il comprendra les proverbes et les sens mystérieux, les maximes des sages et leurs énigmes. 

[Responsory1]
R. God possessed me in the beginning, before He made the earth, before He created the depths, before He caused the fountains of water to spring.
* Before the mountains were settled, before there were any hills, did the Lord beget me.
V. When He prepared the heavens, I was there with Him, ordering all things.
R. Before the mountains were settled, before there were any hills, did the Lord beget me.

[Lectio2]
!Prov 1:7-14
7 La crainte de Yahweh est le commencement de la sagesse ; les insensés méprisent la sagesse et l'instruction. 
8 Écoute, mon fils, l'instruction de ton père, et ne rejette pas l'enseignement de ta mère ; 
9 car c'est une couronne de grâce pour ta tête, et une parure pour ton cou. 
10 Mon fils, si des pécheurs veulent te séduire, ne donne pas ton acquiescement. 
11 S'ils disent : "Viens avec nous, dressons des embûches pour répandre le sang, tendons sans raison des pièges à l'innocent. 
12 Engloutissons-les tout vifs, comme fait le schéol, tout entiers, comme ceux qui descendent dans la fosse. 
13 Nous trouverons toutes sortes de biens précieux, nous remplirons de butin nos maisons ; 
14 tu tireras ta part au sort avec nous, il n'y aura qu'une bourse pour nous tous."

[Responsory2]
R. I alone compassed the circuit of heaven, and walked on the waves of the sea. In every nation and in every people, I held the first place.
* In the greatness of my strength have I trodden under my feet the necks of such as be haughty and proud.
V. I dwell in the highest places, and my throne is in a cloudy pillar.
R. In the greatness of my strength have I trodden under my feet the necks of such as be haughty and proud.

[Lectio3]
!Prov 1:15-19
15 Mon fils, ne va pas avec eux sur le chemin, détourne ton pied de leur sentier ; 
16 car leurs pieds courent au mal, ils se hâtent pour répandre le sang. 
17 C'est vainement qu'on jette le filet devant les yeux de tout ce qui a des ailes ; 
18 eux, c'est contre leur propre sang qu'ils dressent des embûches ; c'est à leur âme qu'ils tendent des pièges. 
19 Telles sont les voies de tout homme âpre au gain ; le gain cause la perte de ceux qui le détiennent.

[Responsory3]
R. O send out wisdom from the throne of thy glory, O Lord, to be with me, and to labour with me,
* That I may know at all times what is pleasing unto thee.
V. Give me wisdom, O Lord, that sitteth by thy throne.
R. That I may know at all times what is pleasing unto thee.
&Gloria
R. That I may know at all times what is pleasing unto thee.

[Lectio4]
From the Treatise of St. Ambrose, Bishop of Milan, upon the 18th Psalm
!Sermon v. 6
The Prophet saith that "the fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom." And what is the first act of wisdom but to renounce the world since to love the things of the world is folly. So indeed saith the Apostle "The wisdom of this world is foolishness with God." (i Cor. iii. 19.) But the very fear of the Lord itself is useless, nay, harmful, if it be not according to knowledge. The Jews have a truly fervent zeal for God, but since they have not knowledge, their very zeal and fear do cause them to do things contrary to God's will. That they circumcise their children, that they keep holy the Sabbath-Day, showeth how they fear the Lord, but knowing not the spiritual meaning of the Law, they circumcise the body and not the heart.

[Responsory4]
R. Give me wisdom, O Lord, that sitteth by thy throne, and reject me not from among thy children.
* For I am thy servant and son of thine handmaid.
V. O send her out from the throne of thy glory, to be with me and to labour with me.
R. For I am thy servant and son of thine handmaid.

[Lectio5]
But wherefore should I speak of Jews There are those among ourselves who have the fear of God, but not according to knowledge, and set up hard ordinances~
which the weakness of man is not able to bear. They fear God in this, that they seem to themselves to be looking to discipline, and to be enforcing the practice of godliness, but they lack knowledge, in that they feel not for the weakness of nature, nor consider whether a thing can, or cannot be done. Let not then the fear of God be unreasonable. True wisdom beginneth with the fear of God, neither is it spiritual wisdom without the fear of God, but neither ought the fear of God to be without wisdom.

[Responsory5]
R. The fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom.
* A good understanding have all they that do His commandments. His praise endureth for ever.
V. Love is the keeping of her laws, for all wisdom is the fear of the Lord.
R. A good understanding have all they that do His commandments. His praise endureth for ever.

[Lectio6]
Holy fear is the foundation of all good instruction. Just as a statue is set up upon a pedestal, and thereby receiveth both beauty and strength, even so doth it become the word of God to be set forth based upon an holy fear, and it is in the heart of him that feareth that it getteth the firmest root, even an home wherefrom it droppeth not, neither do the fowls of the air come and carry it away, as from the heart of him that is careless and deceiving.

[Responsory6]
R. Lord, remove far from me vanity and lies.
* Give me neither poverty nor riches, but feed me with food convenient for me.
V. Two things have I required of thee; deny me them not before I die.
R. Give me neither poverty nor riches, but feed me with food convenient for me.
&Gloria
R. Give me neither poverty nor riches, but feed me with food convenient for me.

[Responsory7]
R. O Lord, Father and God of my life, leave me not to evil counsels; give me not a proud look, but turn away from me an haughty mind, O Lord turn away from me concupiscence,
* And give me not over unto an impudent and froward mind, O Lord!
V. Leave me not, O Lord, lest mine ignorance increase, and my sins abound.
R. And give me not over unto an impudent and froward mind, O Lord.
