[Ant 1]
Toute sagesse * vient du Seigneur Dieu et, avec Lui, elle a toujours été et elle est avant le temps.

[Lectio1]
Lecture du livre de la Sagesse
!Sag 1:1-4
1 Aimez la justice, vous qui êtes les juges de la terre ; que vos pensées sur le Seigneur soient selon la droiture, et cherchez-le d'un coeur sincère ; 
2 car il se laisse trouver par ceux qui ne le tentent point, et il se manifeste à ceux qui se confient à lui.
3 En effet, les pensées perverses séparent de Dieu, et sa puissance, quand on la met à l'épreuve, accuse les insensés. 
4 La sagesse n'entre pas dans une âme qui médite le mal, et n'habite pas dans un corps esclave du péché. 

[Lectio2]
!Sag 1:5-8
5 L'Esprit-Saint, éducateur des hommes, fuit l'astuce ; il s'éloigne des pensées dépourvues d'intelligence, et se retire quand approche l'iniquité. 
6 En effet, la Sagesse est un esprit qui aime les hommes, et il ne laisse pas impuni le blasphémateur pour ses discours, car Dieu est le témoin de ses reins, le véritable scrutateur de son coeur, et il entend ses paroles. 
7 Car l'Esprit du Seigneur remplit l'univers, et lui qui contient tout, sait tout ce qui se dit. 
8 Aussi celui qui tient des discours impies ne saurait rester caché, et la justice vengeresse ne l'oublie pas. 

[Lectio3]
!Sag 1:9-11
9 Car il y aura une enquête sur les desseins du l'impie ; la rumeur de ses paroles arrivera jusqu'au Seigneur, pour le châtiment de ses iniquités. 
10 Une oreille jalouse entend tout, et le bruit des murmures ne lui échappe pas. 
11 Gardez-vous donc des murmures inutiles, et préservez votre langue du blasphème ; car la parole la plus secrète ne sort pas impunie, et la bouche qui ment donne la mort à l'âme. 

[Lectio4]
From the Book of St. Ambrose, Bishop of Milan, "On Offices."
!Bk. i. c. 28
Great is the glory of justice. She liveth for others rather than for herself. By her our commonwealth and fellowship are holpen. She holdeth such a pre-eminence that all things are subject unto her judgment. She helpeth others. She giveth~
wealth. She refuseth not to labour. She taketh upon her the dangers of others. Who would not desire to hold this castle of power and courage, if the covetousness of our first parents had not weakened and distorted the strength of our nerve But so it is, that, while we are fain to increase wealth, to put by money, to add lands to our possessions, or to make show of our abundance, we put off the image of justice, and lose charity toward our brethren.

[Lectio5]
How far-spreading is the field of justice appeareth by this, that there is excepted therefrom no place, person, or time, nay, she hath to do even as regards enemies, for if one be agreed with his enemy of a certain place, or day for battle, it should be deemed unjust to fall on him beforehand, at some other place, or time. For it is a very different thing, whether one get the better of another in a hard fight, or by skill, or by accident. If therefore in war justice hath place, how much more is she to be observed in time of peace

[Lectio6]
Honour is the foundation of justice. The thoughts in the hearts of just men are honourable thoughts and when the just man accuseth himself, it is honour that bringeth him to that just deed. Then is his justice made manifest by his honourable avowal. The Lord saith by Isaiah " Behold, I lay in Zion a foundation-stone" (xxviii. 16), that is to say, He giveth Christ unto the Church to be her foundation. Christ is the true honour for all men, and the Church is as it were a figure of justice, being a commonwealth wherein all have rights, and which worketh as one, and suffereth as one. Whosoever denieth himself, the same is just, and worthy of Christ. Therefore also Paul saith: "Other foundation can no man lay than that is laid, which is Jesus Christ " ( I Cor. iii. 11 ), and upon that foundation is it, that every building of justice must be raised. For the spirit of Christ is the true spirit of honour which is the foundation whereon justice resteth.
