[Ant 1]
Mon fils, observe les préceptes de ton père, ne rejette pas la loi de ta mère mais lie-les constamment dans ton cœur.

[Lectio1]
Lesson from the book of Ecclesiasticus
!Sir 5:1-5
1 Set not thy heart upon unjust possessions, and say not: I have enough to live on: for it shall be of no service in the time of vengeance and darkness.
2 Follow not in thy strength the desires of thy heart:
3 And say not: How mighty am I? and who shall bring me under for my deeds? for God will surely take revenge.
4 Say not: I have sinned, and what harm hath befallen me? for the most High is a patient rewarder.
5 Be not without fear about sin forgiven, and add not sin upon sin:

[Lectio2]
!Sir 5:6-11
6 And say not: The mercy of the Lord is great, he will have mercy on the multitude of my sins.
7 For mercy and wrath quickly come from him, and his wrath looketh upon sinners.
8 Delay not to be converted to the Lord, and defer it not from day to day.
9 For his wrath shall come on a sudden, and in the time of vengeance he will destroy thee.
10 Be not anxious for goods unjustly gotten: for they shall not profit thee in the day of calamity and revenge.
11 Winnow not with every wind, and go not into every way: for so is every sinner proved by a double tongue.

[Lectio3]
!Sir 5:12-16
12 Be steadfast in the way of the Lord, and in the truth of thy judgment, and in knowledge, and let the word of peace and justice keep with thee.
13 Be meek to hear the word, that thou mayst understand: and return a true answer with wisdom.
14 If thou have understanding, answer thy neighbour: but if not, let thy hand be upon thy mouth, lest thou be surprised in an unskillful word, and be confounded.
15 Honour and glory is in the word of the wise, but the tongue of the fool is his ruin.
16 Be not called a whisperer, and be not taken in thy tongue, and confounded.

[Lectio4]
From the Sermons of St. John Chrysostom, Patriarch of Constantinople. Tarry not to turn thee to the Lord, yea, defer not thy repentance from day to day for thou knowest not what the morrow may bring forth. In delay there is danger and terror, but where there is no delay, there health is safe and secure. Live well then, and, then, however young thou diest, thou wilt die safely; and if thou come to old age thou wilt depart without vexation or trouble; and thou wilt have a double happiness, in that thou wilt be leaving all the evils of life, and in that thou hast lived well. Say not: There will be a time meet for repentance for such words as these do greatly rouse the anger of God.

[Lectio5]
He hath promised thee eternal ages, and thou willest not to work in this present life, which is so short and so fleeting. Dost thou so idly and loosely carry thyself, as though the life for which thou seekest were a shorter life than this Do not daily feastings, daily gluttonies, daily uncleanness, shows, and riches bear witness to the undying nature of sinful cravings Think it well over, that as often as thou dost commit uncleanness, thou dost damn thyself for this is the nature of sin, as soon as it is committed, the Judge's sentence is uttered.

[Lectio6]
Hast thou been drunken Hast thou over-eaten thyself? Hast thou stolen Stop, and turn back thank the goodness of God, that He hath not taken thee away in the midst of thy sins seek not more time wherein to commit iniquity. Many have they been who have perished suddenly, in the midst of bad and vicious lives, and have gone away to manifest damnation have a fear lest the same thing befall thee. But, thou sayest, they have been many to whom God hath given time, and they have been to confession in their old age. What then Is that a proof that it will be given to thee Perchance, sayest thou. Why sayest thou, Perchance It befalleth sometimes. Bethink thee that it is of thy soul thou art considering. Look at it the other way, and say What if it be not given But, sayest thou, and what if it be May it be so it is true it is among His gifts but nevertheless, this is the safer and the better way.
