[Lectio1]
Lesson from the book of Job
!Job 1:13-16
13 Now upon a certain day when his sons and daughters were eating and drinking wine in the house of their eldest brother,
14 There came a messenger to Job, and said: The oxen were ploughing, and the asses feeding beside them,
15 And the Sabeans rushed in, and took all away, and slew the servants with the sword, and I alone have escaped to tell thee.
16 And while he was yet speaking, another came, and said: The fire of God fell from heaven, and striking the sheep and the servants, hath consumed them, and I alone have escaped to tell thee.

[Responsory1]
R. My harp is turned to mourning, and my organ into the voice of them that weep.
* Let me alone, O Lord, for my days are vanity.
V. My skin is black upon me, and my bones are burned with heat.
R. Let me alone, O Lord, for my days are vanity.

[Lectio2]
!Job 1:17-19
17 And while he also was yet speaking, there came another, and said: The Chaldeans made three troops, and have fallen upon the camels, and taken them, moreover they have slain the servants with the sword, and I alone have escaped to tell thee.
18 He was yet speaking, and behold another came in, and said: thy sons and daughters were eating and drinking wine in the house of their elder brother:
19 A violent wind came on a sudden from the side of the desert, and shook the four corners of the house, and it fell upon thy children and they are dead, and I alone have escaped to fell thee.

[Responsory2]
R. O that my sins, whereby I have deserved wrath;
* And the calamity whereunder I suffer, were laid in the balances together.
V. For now it would appear heavier than the sand of the sea, therefore also my words are full of sorrow.
R. And the calamity, whereunder I suffer, were laid in the balances together.

[Lectio3]
!Job 1:20-22
20 Then Job rose up, and rent his garments, and having shaven his head fell down upon the ground and worshipped,
21 And said: Naked came I out of my mother's womb, and naked shall I return thither: the Lord gave, and the Lord hath taken away: as it hath pleased the Lord so is it done: blessed be the name of the Lord.
22 In all these things Job sinned not by his lips, nor spoke he any foolish thing against God.