[Ant 1]
Ne Vous souvenez-pas, Seigneur * de mes péchés ou de ceux de mes parents et ne tirez pas vengeance de mes péchés.

[Lectio1]
Lecture du livre de Tobie
!Tob 1:1-4
01 Tobie, de la tribu et d'une ville de Nephthali, qui est dans la Galilée supérieure, au-dessus de Naasson, derrière le chemin qui va au couchant, ayant à gauche la ville de Séphet,
02 fut emmené captif au temps de Salmanasar, roi des Assyriens; et, dans sa captivité même, il n'abandonna pas le chemin de la vérité.
03 Tous les jours, il distribuait à ses frères, ceux de sa nation, captifs comme lui, tout ce dont il pouvait disposer.
04 Et alors même qu'il était le plus jeune de ceux de la tribu de Nephthali, il n'y avait rien de juvénile en sa conduite.

[Responsory1]
R. I entreat thee, O Lord, that thou wouldest loose me from this reproach, or that thou wouldest take me away from the earth: 
* Remember not mine offences nor the offences of my forefathers, neither take thou vengeance of my sins; for thou, O Lord, art a Redeemer unto all that hope in thee.
V. For all thy judgements are just, and all thy ways are mercy and truth; and now, O Lord, remember me.
R. Remember not mine offences nor the offences of my forefathers, neither take thou vengeance of my sins; for thou, O Lord, art a Redeemer unto all that hope in thee.

[Lectio2]
!Tob 1:5-10
05 Aussi, tandis que tout le monde allait adorer les veaux d'or que Jéroboam, roi d'Israël avait faits, lui seul fuyait la compagnie de tous,
06 et il se rendait à Jérusalem, au temple du Seigneur où il adorait le Seigneur, Dieu d'Israël, offrant fidèlement les prémices et les dîmes de ses biens.
07 Tous les trois ans, il distribuait aux prosélytes et aux étrangers toute sa dîme. 
08 Il observait ces choses et d'autres semblables, selon la loi de Dieu, dès son jeune âge.
09 Parvenu à l'âge d'homme, il épousa une femme de sa tribu, nommée Anne; et il en eut un fils auquel il donna son nom,
10 et qu'il instruisit dès l'enfance à craindre Dieu et à s'abstenir de tout péché.

[Responsory2]
R. In all seasons bless God, and ask of Him to order thy goings;
* And in all seasons let thy counsels be steadfastly in Him.
V. Seek faithfully and with all thy strength to do such things as please Him.
R. And in all seasons let thy counsels be steadfastly in Him.

[Lectio3]
!Tob 1:11-15
11 And when by the captivity he with his wife and his son and all his tribe was come to the city of Ninive,
12 (When all ate of the meats of the Gentiles) he kept his soul and never was defiled with their meats.
13 And because he was mindful of the Lord with all his heart, God gave him favour in the sight of Salmanasar the king.
14 And he gave him leave to go whithersoever he would, with liberty to do whatever he had a mind.
15 He therefore went to all that were in captivity, and gave them wholesome admonitions.

[Responsory3]
R. My son, remember that we have but a frail life.
* If thou fear God thou shalt have great goods.
V. Be mindful of Him, and beware lest ever thou transgress His commandments.
R. If thou fear God thou shalt have great goods.
&Gloria
R. If thou fear God thou shalt have great goods.

[Lectio4]
Sermon of St. Leo the Great, Pope.
!Serm. 9. de jejunio 7. mensis.
Well do I know, dearly beloved, that many of you are fervent in your observance of all those practices which belong to the Christian Faith, so that ye have no need to be admonished by our exhortations. For what tradition hath laid down, and custom well established, is neither unknown to the learned nor neglected by the devout. But because it appertaineth to the priestly office to exercise the same general care over all the Church's children in all such matters as be profitable alike to the learned and to the simple (both of whom are equally dear to us), we do now exhort the both of you to celebrate, with lively faith, and all due discipline of soul and body, the Quarterly Fast, which the seventh month [that is, September] doth once again bring to us in its yearly round.

[Responsory4]
R. Our poverty was enough for us, that it might have been accounted riches. O that the money had never been, for which thou hast sent away our son,
* The staff of our old age.
V. Alas, my son, wherefore have we sent thee wandering, even thee, the light of our eyes?
R. The staff of our old age.

[Lectio5]
The Ember Days of fasting are appointed to the four seasons, in order that their quarterly recurrence in the course of the year may teach us how unceasingly we need to be purified, and how, as long as we are tossed about by the changes and chances of this life, we need through fasting and alms-deeds to be cleansed from the stain of that sin which we have contracted by the frailty of our flesh and our concupiscence. Let us diminish a little, beloved, what we are accustomed to use for ourselves, in order that we have somewhat more to use for the relief of the poor and needy.

[Responsory5]
R. Bless the God of heaven, and confess Him before all living:
* For He hath had mercy upon you.
V. Bless Him, and sing praises unto Him, and tell of all His marvelous works.
R. For He hath had mercy upon you.

[Lectio6]
The conscience of the generous can thus be made glad by the fruits of their own liberality. Whilst thou art giving happiness thou shalt receive joy. Thy love for thy neighbor is a unity with thy love for God; and he hath taught us that in the unity of this twofold charity is to be found the fulfillment of all the Law and the Prophets. Further, if anyone doubt that what is given to man is offered to God, we have the saying of our Lord and Saviour, when he spake of feeding and helping the poor: Inasmuch as ye have done it unto one of the least of these, my brethren, ye have done it unto me. Wherefore, let us fast on Ember Wednesday and Friday; and on Ember Saturday let us also keep vigil at the shrine of blessed Peter the Apostle; by whose merits and prayers we believe that we shall be aided, so that we may please our merciful God in our fasting and prayer.

[Responsory6]
R. It is time for me to return unto Him That sent me;
* But bless ye God, and tell of all His marvelous works.
V. Confess Him before all living, for He hath had mercy upon you.
R. But bless ye God, and tell of all His marvelous works.
&Gloria
R. But bless ye God, and tell of all His marvelous works.

[Responsory7]
R. We have heard of the tribulation of those cities, which they have suffered, and we have fainted. Fear and confusion of mind are fallen upon us. Even the mountains will not give us a refuge.
* Lord, have mercy.
V. We have sinned like our forefathers, we have done unjustly, and wrought iniquity.
R. Lord, have mercy.
