[Rank]
Feria Sexta Quattuor Temporum Septembris;;Feria major;;2

[Rank1960]
Feria Sexta Quattuor Temporum Septembris;;Feria major;;4

[Rule]
Preces feriales

[Lectio1]
Continuation of the Holy Gospel according to Luke
!Luke 7:36-50
At that time, one of the Pharisees desired that Jesus would eat with him. And He went into the Pharisee's house, and sat down to meat. And so on.
_
Homily by Pope St. Gregory (the Great.)
!33rd on the Gospels.
Of what is the Pharisee that was exalted by self-righteousness a type, but of the Jewish people? And of what the woman which was a sinner and came and wept at the Lord's feet, but of the conversion of the Gentiles? She brought an alabaster box of ointment, and stood at His feet behind Him weeping, and began to wash His Feet with tears, and did wipe them with the hairs of her head, and kissed His Feet, and anointed them with the ointment. Of us, therefore, even of us, was that woman a type, if after our sins we turn unto the Lord with all our heart, and imitate the example of her repentant grief. And of what is the ointment a type, but of the sweet savour of a good reputation? Whence also Paul saith: In every place we are unto God a sweet savour of Christ. (2 Cor. ii. 15.)

[Lectio2]
If therefore we do good works, whereby we gain for the Church the savour of good reputation, what do we but pour ointment upon the body of the Lord? But the woman stood at the Feet of Jesus, behind Him we stood opposite to the Feet of the Lord, what time we were in sin, and went contrary unto His ways. But when we turn again, and truly repent us of our sins, we stand behind His Feet, for we follow His footsteps against Whom we once contended. The woman washed His Feet with her tears and we do in very deed the same when we show the tenderness of sympathy to any of His humbler members, when we feel with His Saints in their tribulations, when we make their woes our own.

[Lectio3]
She wipes the Lord's Feet with our hair when we give charity, even out of such things as we have ourselves no need of, to His holy ones, with whom we feel in their trials, in as far as our heart so sympathizeth, that the bounty of our hand showeth the truth of our compassion. He washeth the Feet of the Redeemer, but wipeth them not with his hair, who feeleth for the sufferings of his neighbours, but nevertheless, relieveth them not, even out of such things as he himself hath no need for. He weepeth, but wipeth not, who offereth words of tenderness, but sootheth not sorrow by giving such things as be lacking. The woman kissed the Feet and we do fully the same, if we warmly love those whom out of bounty we support, so that the neediness of our neighbour is not grievous unto us, nor the penury which we relieve a weariness to us, nor, when the hand is giving what is needful, the heart is untouched by compassion.

[Ant 2]
Une femme qui était connue comme pécheresse, se tenant en arrière près des pieds du Seigneur, commença de les arroser de ses larmes, de les essuyer avec les cheveux de sa tête, puis elle baisait Ses pieds et les oignait de parfum.

[Oratio]
Accordez à notre demande, Dieu tout-puissant, que, célébrant avec zèle chaque année ces saintes observances, nous Vous plaisions à la fois par le corps et par l'âme.
$Per Dominum
