[Lectio1]
Lesson from the first book of Machabees
!1 Mac 3:42-45
42 And Judas and his brethren saw that evils were multiplied, and that the armies approached to their borders: and they knew the orders the king had given to destroy the people and utterly abolish them.
43 And they said every man to his neighbour: Let us raise up the low condition of our people, and let us fight for our people, and our sanctuary.
44 And the assembly was gathered that they might be ready for battle: and that they might pray, and ask mercy and compassion.
45 Now Jerusalem was not inhabited, but was like a desert: there was none of her children that went in or out: and the sanctuary was trodden down: and the children of strangers were in the castle, there was the habitation of the Gentiles: and joy was taken away from Jacob, and the pipe and harp ceased there.

[Lectio2]
!1 Mac 3:46-53
46 And they assembled together, and came to Maspha over against Jerusalem: for in Maspha was a place of prayer heretofore in Israel.
47 And they fasted that day, and put on haircloth, and put ashes upon their heads: and they rent their garments:
48 And they laid open the books of the law, in which the Gentiles searched for the likeness of their idols:
49 And they brought the priestly ornaments, and the firstfruits and tithes, and stirred up the Nazarites that had fulfilled their days:
50 And they cried with a loud voice toward heaven, saying: What shall we do with these, and whither shall we carry them?
51 For thy holies are trodden down, and are profaned, and thy priests are in mourning, and are brought low.
52 And behold the nations are come together against us to destroy us: thou knowest what they intend against us.
53 How shall we be able to stand before their face, unless thou, O God, help us?

[Lectio3]
!1 Mac 3:54-60
54 Then they sounded with trumpets, and cried out with a loud voice.
55 And after this Judas appointed captains over the people, over thousands, and over hundreds, and over fifties, and over tens.
56 And he said to them that were building houses, or had betrothed wives, or were planting vineyards, or were fearful, that they should return every man to his house, according to the law.
57 So they removed the camp, and pitched on the south side of Emmaus.
58 And Judas said: Gird yourselves, and be valiant men, and be ready against the morning, that you may fight with these nations that are assembled against us to destroy us and our sanctuary.
59 For it is better for us to die in battle, than to see the evils of our nation, and of the holies:
60 Nevertheless as it shall be the will of God in heaven so be it done.