[Lectio1]
Lesson from the first book of Machabees
!1 Mac 7:1; 7:4-7
1 In the hundred and fifty-first year Demetrius the son of Seleucus departed from the city of Rome, and came up with a few men into a city of the sea coast, and reigned there.
4 So the army slew them. And Demetrius sat upon the throne of his kingdom: 
5 And there came to him the wicked and ungodly men of Israel: And Alcimus was at the head of them, who desired to be made high priest.
6 And they accused the people to the king, saying: Judas and his brethren have destroyed all thy friends, and he hath driven us out of our land. 
7 Now therefore send some man whom thou trustest, and let him go, and see all the havock he hath made amongst us, and in the king's lands: and let him punish all his friends and their helpers. 

[Lectio2]
!1 Mac 7:8-11
8 Then the king chose Bacchides, one of his friends that ruled beyond the great river in the kingdom, and was faithful to the king: and he sent him,
9 To see the havock that Judas had made: and the wicked Alcimus he made high priest, and commanded him to take revenge upon the children of Israel.
10 And they arose, and came with a great army into the land of Juda: and they sent messengers, and spoke to Judas and his brethren with peaceable words deceitfully.
11 But they gave no heed to their words: for they saw that they were come with a great army.

[Lectio3]
!1 Mac 7:12-17
12 Then there assembled to Alcimus and Bacchides a company of the scribes to require things that are just:
13 And first the Assideans that were among the children of Israel, and they sought peace of them.
14 For they said: One that is a priest of the seed of Aaron is come, he will not deceive us.
15 And he spoke to them peaceably: and he swore to them, saying: We will do you no harm nor your friends.
16 And they believed him. And he took threescore of them, and slew them in one day, according to the word that is written:
17 The flesh of thy saints, and the blood of them they have shed round about Jerusalem, and there was none to bury them.