[Lectio1]
Lesson from the first book of Machabees
!1 Mac 8:1-4
1 Now Judas heard of the fame of the Romans, that they are powerful and strong, and willingly agree to all things that are requested of them: and that whosoever have come to them, they have made amity with them, and that they are mighty in power.
2 And they heard of their battles, and their noble acts, which they had done in Galatia, how they conquered them, and brought them under tribute:
3 And how great things they had done in the land of Spain, and that they had brought under their power the mines of silver and of gold that are there, and had gotten possession of all the place by their counsel and patience:
4 And had conquered places that were very far off from them, and kings that came against them from the ends of the earth, and had overthrown them with great slaughter: and the rest pay them tribute every year.

[Lectio2]
!1 Mac 8:17-22
17 So Judas chose Eupolemus the son of John, the son of Jacob, and Jason the son of Eleazar, and he sent them to Rome to make a league of amity and confederacy with them.
18 And that they might take off from them the yoke of the Grecians, for they saw that they oppressed the kingdom of Israel with servitude.
19 And they went to Rome, a very long journey, and they entered into the senate house, and said:
20 Judas Machabeus, and his brethren, and the people of the Jews have sent us to you, to make alliance and peace with you, and that we may be registered your confederates and friends.
21 And the proposal was pleasing in their sight.
22 And this is the copy of the writing that they wrote back again, graven in tables of brass, and sent to Jerusalem, that it might be with them there for a memorial of the peace and alliance.

[Lectio3]
!1 Mac 8:23-27
23 Good success be to the Romans, and to the people of the Jews, by sea and by land for ever: and far be the sword and enemy from them.
24 But if there come first any war upon the Romans, or any of their confederates, in all their dominions:
25 The nation of the Jews shall help them according as the time shall direct, with all their heart:
26 Neither shall they give them, whilst they are fighting, or furnish them with wheat, or arms, or money, or ships, as it hath seemed good to the Romans: and they shall obey their orders, without taking any thing of them.
27 In like manner also if war shall come first upon the nation of the Jews, the Romans shall help them with all their heart, according as the time shall permit them.