[Lectio1]
Lesson from the first book of Machabees
!1 Mac 13:1-6
1 Now Simon heard that Tryphon was gathering together a very great army, to invade the land of Juda, and to destroy it.
2 And seeing that the people was in dread, and in fear, he went up to Jerusalem, and assembled the people:
3 And exhorted them, saying: You know what great battles I and my brethren, and the house of my father, have fought for the laws, and the sanctuary, and the distresses that we have seen:
4 By reason whereof all my brethren have lost their lives for Israel's sake, and I am left alone.
5 And now far be it from me to spare my life in any time of trouble: for I am not better than my brethren.
6 I will avenge then my nation and the sanctuary, and our children, and wives: for all the heathens are gathered together to destroy us out of mere malice.

[Lectio2]
!1 Mac 13:7-13
7 And the spirit of the people was enkindled as soon as they heard these words.
8 And they answered with a loud voice, saying: Thou art our leader in the place of Judas, and Jonathan thy brother.
9 Fight thou our battles, and we will do whatsoever thou shalt say to us.
10 So gathering together all the men of war, he made haste to finish all the walls of Jerusalem, and he fortified it round about.
11 And he sent Jonathan the son of Absalom, and with him a new army into Joppe, and he cast out them that were in it, and himself remained there.
12 And Tryphon removed from Ptolemais with a great army, to invade the land of Juda, and Jonathan was with him in custody.
13 But Simon pitched in Addus, over against the plain.

[Lectio3]
!1 Mac 13:14-19
14 And when Tryphon understood that Simon was risen up in the place of his brother Jonathan, and that he meant to join battle with him, he sent messengers to him,
15 Saying: We have detained thy brother Jonathan for the money that he owed in the king's account, by reason of the affairs which he had the management of.
16 But now send a hundred talents of silver, and his two sons for hostages, that when he is set at liberty he may not revolt from us, and we will release him.
17 Now Simon knew that he spoke deceitfully to him, nevertheless he ordered the money, and the children to be sent: lest he should bring upon himself a great hatred of the people of Israel, who might have said:
18 Because he sent not the money, and the children, therefore is he lost.
19 So he sent the children, and the hundred talents: and he lied, and did not let Jonathan go.