[Ant 1]
Israël pleurait Judas * avec une grande douleur et disait : comment es-tu tombé, toi, puissant dans le combat, qui sauvais le peuple du Seigneur ?

[Lectio1]
Lesson from the first book of Machabees
!1 Mac 9:1-6
1 In the mean time when Demetrius heard that Nicanor and his army were fallen in battle, he sent again Bacchides and Alcimus into Judea; and the right wing of his army with them.
2 And they took the road that leadeth to Galgal, and they camped in Masaloth, which is in Arabella: and they made themselves masters of it, and slew many people.
3 In the first month of the hundred and fifty-second year they brought the army to Jerusalem:
4 And they arose, and went to Berea with twenty thousand men, and two thousand horsemen.
5 Now Judas had pitched his tents in Laisa, and three thousand chosen men with him:
6 And they saw the multitude of the army that they were many, and they were seized with great fear: and many withdrew themselves out of the camp, and there remained of them no more than eight hundred men.

[Lectio2]
!1 Mac 9:7-11
7 And Judas saw that his army slipped away, and the battle pressed upon him, and his heart was cast down: because he had not time to gather them together, and he was discouraged.
8 Then he said to them that remained: Let us arise, and go against our enemies, if we may be able to fight against them.
9 But they dissuaded him, saying: We shall not be able, but let us save our lives now, and return to our brethren, and then we will fight against them: for we are but few.
10 Then Judas said: God forbid we should do this thing, and flee away from them: but if our time be come, let us die manfully for our brethren, and let us not stain our glory.
11 And the army removed out of the camp, and they stood over against them: and the horsemen were divided into two troops, and the slingers, and the archers went before the army, and they that were in the front were all men of valour.

[Lectio3]
!1 Mac 9:12-20
12 And Bacchides was in the right wing, and the legion drew near on two sides, and they sounded the trumpets:
13 And they also were on Judas' side, even they also cried out, and the earth shook at the noise of the armies: and the battle was fought from morning even unto the evening.
14 And Judas perceived that the stronger part of the army of Bacchides was on the right side, and all the stout of heart came together with him:
15 And the right wing was discomfited by them, and he pursued them even to the mount Azotus.
16 And they that were in the left wing saw that the right wing was discomfited, and they followed after Judas, and them that were with him, at their back:
17 And the battle was hard fought, and there fell many wounded of the one side and of the other.
18 And Judas was slain, and the rest fled away.
19 And Jonathan and Simon took Judas their brother, and buried him in the sepulchre of their fathers in the city of Modin.
20 And all the people of Israel bewailed him with great lamentation, and they mourned for him many days.

[Lectio4]
On the duties of the Clergy Ambrose bishop of Milan
!Book 1. ch. 41
209. But as fortitude is proved not only by prosperity but also in adversity, let us now consider the death of Judas Maccabæus. For he, after Nicanor, the general of King Demetrius, was defeated, boldly engaged 20,000 of the king's army with 900 men who were anxious to retire for fear of being overcome by so great a multitude, but whom he persuaded to endure a glorious death rather than to retire in disgraceful flight. Let us not leave, he says, any stain upon our glory. Thus, then, engaging in battle after having fought from sunrise till evening, he attacks and quickly drives back the right wing, where he sees the strongest troop of the enemy to be. But while pursuing the fugitives from the rear he gave a chance for a wound to be inflicted. (1 Macc 9:8) Thus he found the spot of death more full of glory for himself than any triumph.

[Lectio5]
Why need I further mention his brother Jonathan, who fought against the king's force, with but a small troop. (1 Macc 11:68) Though forsaken by his men, and left with only two, he retrieved the battle, drove back the enemy, and recalled his own men, who were flying in every direction, to share in his triumph. Here, then, is fortitude in war, which bears no light impress of what is virtuous and seemly upon it, for it prefers death to slavery and disgrace. But what am I to say of the sufferings of the martyrs? Not to go too far abroad, did not the children of Maccabæus gain triumphs over the proud King Antiochus, as great as those of their fathers? The latter in truth were armed, but they conquered without arms. 

[Lectio6]
The company of the seven brothers stood unconquered, though surrounded by the legions of the king — tortures failed, tormentors ceased; but the martyrs failed not. One, having had the skin of his head pulled off, though changed in appearance, grew in courage. Another, bidden to put forth his tongue, so that it might be cut off, answered: The Lord hears not only those who speak, for He heard Moses when silent. He hears better the silent thoughts of His own than the voice of all others. Do you fear the scourge of my tongue— and do you not fear the scourge of blood spilt upon the ground? Blood, too, has a voice whereby it cries aloud to God— as it did in the case of Abel.
