[Lectio1Tridentina]
Lesson from the second book of Machabees
!2 Mac 7:7-12
7 So when the first was dead after this manner, they brought the next to make him a mocking stock: and when they had pulled off the skin of his head with the hair, they asked him if he would eat, before he were punished throughout the whole body in every limb.
8 But he answered in his own language, and said: I will not do it. Wherefore he also in the next place, received the torments of the first:
9 And when he was at the last gasp, he said thus: Thou indeed, O most wicked man, destroyest us out of this present life: but the King of the world will raise us up, who die for his laws, in the resurrection of eternal life.
10 After him the third was made a mocking stock, and when he was required, he quickly put forth his tongue, and courageously stretched out his hands:
11 And said with confidence: These I have from heaven, but for the laws of God I now despise them, because I hope to receive them again from him.
12 So that the king, and they that were with him, wondered at the young man's courage, because he esteemed the torments as nothing.

[Lectio1]
@Tempora/105-0
(sed rubrica tridentina)
@Tempora/105-1:Lectio1Tridentina

[Lectio2Tridentina]
!2 Mac 7:13-19
13 And after he was thus dead, they tormented the fourth in the like manner
14 And when he was now ready to die, he spoke thus: It is better, being put to death by men, to look for hope from God, to be raised up again by him: for, as to thee thou shalt have no resurrection unto life.
15 And when they had brought the fifth, they tormented him. But he looking upon the king,
16 Said: Whereas thou hast power among men, though thou art corruptible, thou dost what thou wilt: but think not that our nation is forsaken by God.
17 But stay patiently a while, and thou shalt see his great power, in what manner he will torment thee and thy seed.
18 After him they brought the sixth, and he being ready to die, spoke thus: Be not deceived without cause: for we suffer these things for ourselves, having sinned against our God, and things worthy of admiration are done to us:
19 But do not think that thou shalt escape unpunished, for that thou attempted to fight against God.

[Lectio2]
@Tempora/105-0
(sed rubrica tridentina)
@Tempora/105-1:Lectio2Tridentina

[Lectio3Tridentina]
!2 Mac 7:20-23
20 Now the mother was to be admired above measure, and worthy to be remembered by good men, who beheld seven sons slain in the space of one day, and bore it with a good courage, for the hope that she had in God:
21 And she bravely exhorted every one of them in her own language, being filled with wisdom: and joining a man's heart to a woman's thought,
22 She said to them: I know not how you were formed in my womb: for I neither gave you breath, nor soul, nor life, neither did I frame the limbs of every one of you.
23 But the Creator of the world, that formed the nativity of man, and that found out the origin of all, he will restore to you again in his mercy, both breath and life, as now you despise yourselves for the sake of his laws.

[Lectio3]
@Tempora/105-0
(sed rubrica tridentina)
@Tempora/105-1:Lectio3Tridentina