[Rank]
Dominica infra Octavam Epiphaniae;;Semiduplex;;5;;ex Sancti/01-06

[Rule]
ex Sancti/01-06
9 lectiones
Initia cum responsory

[Capitulum Vespera]
!Rom 12:1
v. Brethren: I Beseech you, by the mercy of God, that you present your bodies a living sacrifice, holy, pleasing unto God, your reasonable service
$Deo gratias

[Ant 1]
The child Jesus * remained in Jerusalem; and his parents knew it not. And thinking that he was in the company, they came a day's journey, and sought him among their kinsfolks and acquaintance.

[Oratio]
Accueillez avec bonté, Seigneur, les vœux de votre peuple en prière, donnant à chacun de voir ce qu'il doit faire et la force de pouvoir l'accomplir.
$Per Dominum

[Lectio1]
Lesson from the first letter of St. Paul the Apostle to the Corinthians
!1 Cor 1:1-3
1 Paul, called to be an apostle of Jesus Christ by the will of God, and Sosthenes a brother,
2 To the church of God that is at Corinth, to them that are sanctified in Christ Jesus, called to be saints, with all that invoke the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, in every place of theirs and ours.
3 Grace to you, and peace from God our Father, and from the Lord Jesus Christ.

[Lectio2]
!1 Cor 1:4-9
4 I give thanks to my God always for you, for the grace of God that is given you in Christ Jesus,
5 That in all things you are made rich in him, in all utterance, and in all knowledge;
6 As the testimony of Christ was confirmed in you,
7 So that nothing is wanting to you in any grace, waiting for the manifestation of our Lord Jesus Christ.
8 Who also will confirm you unto the end without crime, in the day of the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ.
9 God is faithful: by whom you are called unto the fellowship of his Son Jesus Christ our Lord.

[Lectio3]
!1 Cor 1:10-13
10 Now I beseech you, brethren, by the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, that you all speak the same thing, and that there be no schisms among you; but that you be perfect in the same mind, and in the same judgment.
11 For it hath been signified unto me, my brethren, of you, by them that are of the house of Chloe, that there are contentions among you.
12 Now this I say, that every one of you saith: I indeed am of Paul; and I am of Apollo; and I am of Cephas; and I of Christ.
13 Is Christ divided? Was Paul then crucified for you? or were you baptized in the name of Paul?

[Lectio4]
From the Sermons of Pope St. Leo (the Great.) 
!4th on the Epiphany 
It is meet and right, dearly beloved brethren, yea, it is our bounden duty and godly service, to rejoice with full hearts upon those days which more especially set forth before us the workings of God's mercy; and to have in honourable memory those things that were done for our salvation. Hereto are we called by the seasons of the year which continually return, and notably by this present, which, after but a short time hath passed since that day whereon the Coeternal Son of God was born of a Virgin, bringeth now the Feast of the Epiphany, hallowed by the Manifestation of the Lord.

[Lectio5]
In this said Manifestation the good Providence of God hath appointed a strong bulwark to our faith. For now, while in solemn worship we call to mind how the childhood of the Saviour was adored in its first infancy, we receive from the original Scriptures the doctrine that Christ was born with the very nature of man. For this is that which maketh of sinners saints, even to believe that in one and the same our Lord Jesus Christ there is very Godhead and very Manhood—very Godhead, as touching Which, He, being in the form of God, is equal to the Father from everlasting to everlasting — and very Manhood, wherein He, taking upon Him the form of a servant, hath in these latter days been born Man.

[Lectio6]
For the strengthening of this our faith, which we profess in the face of every false doctrine, the mercy of God hath made it to come to pass that one of those peoples who dwell in the uttermost parts of the East, and excel in the skill of reading the stars, should see the sign of the birth of that Child Who was to reign over all Israel. There appeared to the eyes of wise men a new star of such passing beauty, as wrought in the minds of all that saw it the persuasion that the event, which is announced, was of an importance not to be neglected.

[Lectio7]
From the Holy Gospel according to Luke
!Luke 2:42-51
When Jesus was twelve years old they went up to Jerusalem, after the custom of the Feast, and when they had fulfilled the days, as they returned, the child JESUS tarried behind in Jerusalem. And so on.
_
Homily by St. Ambrose, Bishop (of Milan.)
!Bk. ii on Luke ii
We read that when He was twelve years old the Lord began to dispute. The number of His years was the same as the number of the Apostles whom He afterwards sent forth to preach the Faith. He Who, as touching His Manhood, was filled with wisdom and grace from God, was not careless of the parents of the same Manhood, and, after three days, was pleased to be found in the Temple: thereby foreshadowing that, after the three days of His victorious Passion, He That had been reckoned with the dead, would present Himself, living, to our faith, in His heavenly Kingship and Divine Majesty.

[Lectio8]
How is it that ye sought Me? Christ hath two Generations; one from His Father,~
another from His Mother. That from His Father is His Eternal Generation as God the Son; that from His Mother is that whereby He came to work for us and minister to us. Those acts, therefore, of His, which are above nature, beyond His age, and different to His custom, proceeded not from the strength of His Manhood, but from the power of His Godhead. On another occasion His Mother moveth Him to work a miracle; here He answereth her, because she treateth that which was of the Godhead, as though it had been of the Manhood. On this occasion it is said that He was twelve years old, but on the other He had already disciples. His mother had seen His wonders on the earlier occasion, and had learnt from her Son to call on the mightier nature for a work of power.

[Lectio9]
He came to Nazareth, and was subject unto them. No wonder that the great Teacher should practise. And shall we marvel how He Who was subject to His Mother, was about His Father's business? His subjection to His Mother proceeded, not from weakness, but from dutiful affection. Nevertheless, the false serpent lifteth its head from its cruel lair, and spitteth poison from its venomous breast. The heretics say that, as the Son was sent by the Father, therefore the Father is greater than the Son, and, if the Father be greater than the Son, there is that, than which the Son is less; yea, that He Who is sent, hath of necessity, need of some strengthening from outside Himself. He was subject to His Mother? Was He less than she? God forbid!
&teDeum

[Capitulum Sexta]
!Rom 12:3
v. For I say, by the grace that is given me, to all that are among you, not to be more wise than it behoveth to be wise, but to be wise unto sobriety, and according as God hath divided to every one the measure of faith
$Deo gratias

[Capitulum Nona]
!Rom 12:4-5
v. For as in one body we have many members, but all the members have not the same office: So we being many, are one body in Christ, and every one members one of another.
$Deo gratias

[Ant 3]
Son, why hast thou thus dealt with us? Behold, thy father and I have sought thee sorrowing. How is it that ye sought me? Wist ye not that I must be about my Father's business?
