[Lectio1]
From the Prophet Ezechiel
!Ezek  34:1-4
1  And the word of the Lord came to me, saying:
2  Son of man, prophesy concerning the shepherds of Israel: prophesy, and say to the shepherds: Thus saith the Lord God: Woe to the shepherds of Israel, that fed themselves: should not the hocks be fed by the shepherds?
3  You ate the milk, end you clothed yourselves with the wool, and you killed that which was fat: but my flock you did not feed.
4  The weak you have not strengthened, and that which was sick you have not healed, that which was broken you have not bound up, and that which was driven away you have not brought again, neither have you sought that which was lost: but you ruled over them with rigour, and with a high hand.

[Responsory1]
@TemporaM/111-2:Responsory1

[Lectio2]
!Ezek 1:5-9
5  And in the midst thereof the likeness of four living creatures: and this was their appearance: there was the likeness of a man in them.
6  Every one had four faces, and every one four wings.
7  Their feet were straight feet, and the sole of their foot was like the sole of a calf's foot, and they sparkled like the appearance of glowing brass.
8  And they had the hands of a man under their wings on their four sides: and they bad faces, and wings on the four sides,
9  And the wings of one were joined to the wings of another. They turned not when they went: but every one went straight forward.

[Responsory2]
@TemporaM/111-2:Responsory2

[Lectio3]
!Ezek 1:10-12
10  And as for the likeness of their faces: there was the face of a man, and the face of a lion on the right side of all the four: and the face of an ox, on the left side of all the four: and the face of an eagle over all the four.
11  And their faces, and their wings were stretched upward: two wings of every one were joined, and two covered their bodies:
12  And every one of them went straight forward: whither the impulse of the spirit was to go, thither they went: and they turned not when they went.

[Responsory3]
@TemporaM/111-2:Responsory3
