[Rank]
Feria V in Octava Ascensionis;;Duplex majus;;4;;ex Tempora/Pasc5-4

[Rank1960]
Feria V in hebdomadam post Ascensionem;;Feria;;1;;vide Tempora/Pasc5-4

[Rule]
ex Tempora/Pasc5-4;
Feria Te Deum
Psalmi Dominica
Antiphonas Horas
9 Lectiones
Doxology=Asc

[Lectio1]
Olvasmány szent Pál apostol Efezusiakhoz irott levelébõl
!Eph 4:1-8
1 Kérlek benneteket, én, aki fogoly vagyok az Úrban, hogy éljetek méltón ahhoz a hivatáshoz, amelyet kaptatok, 
2 teljes alázatban, szelídségben és türelemben. Viseljétek el egymást szeretettel. 
3 Törekedjetek rá, hogy a béke kötelékével fenntartsátok a lelki egységet. 
4 Egy a Test és egy a Lélek, mint ahogy hivatástok is egy reményre szól. 
5 Egy az Úr, egy a hit, egy a keresztség. 
6 Egy az Isten, mindnyájunk Atyja, aki mindennek fölötte áll, mindent áthat és mindenben benne van. 
7 Mindegyikünk Krisztus ajándékozásának mértéke szerint részesült a kegyelemben. 
8 Ezért mondja az Írás: Fölment a magasba, magával vitte a foglyokat, s osztott az embereknek ajándékokat. 

[Responsory1]
@Tempora/Pasc5-4:Responsory1

[Lectio2]
!Eph 4:9-14
9 Az pedig, hogy fölment, mi mást jelent, mint hogy elõbb le is szállt a lenti földi tájakra? 
10 Aki leszállt, az emelkedett minden ég fölé, hogy betöltse a mindenséget. 
11 Õ némelyeket apostollá, másokat prófétává, ismét másokat evangélistává, pásztorrá és tanítóvá tett, 
12 hogy szolgálatuk betöltésére neveljék a szenteket, és fölépítsék Krisztus testét, 
13 amíg mindnyájan el nem jutunk az Isten Fia hitének és megismerésének egységére, és meglett emberré nem leszünk, elérve Krisztus teljessége életkorának mértékére. 
14 Akkor majd nem leszünk éretlenek, akiket a megtévesztõ emberi tanítás és a tévedésbe ejtõ álnokság minden szele magával sodor. 

[Responsory2]
@Tempora/Pasc5-4:Responsory2

[Lectio3]
!Eph 4:15-21
15 Inkább igazságban kell élnünk és szeretetben, hogy egyre inkább összeforrjunk a Fõvel: Krisztussal. 
16 Õ az, aki az egész testet egybefogja és összetartja a különféle ízületek segítségével, hogy a tagok betöltsék az erejükhöz szabott feladatkört. Így növekszik a test, és építi fel saját magát a szeretetben. 
17 Azt mondom tehát, sõt figyelmeztetlek titeket az Úrban, ne éljetek úgy, mint a pogányok, akik hiúságokon járatják az eszüket. 
18 Sötétség borult elméjükre és elidegenedtek az istenes élettõl tudatlanságukban, amely szívük megátalkodottságának következménye. 
19 Lelkileg eltompulva kicsapongásokra adták magukat, és kapzsiságból mindenféle ocsmányságot ûznek. 
20 Ti azonban nem ezt tanultátok Krisztustól, 
21 ha valóban õrá hallgattatok és megtanultátok.

[Responsory3]
@Tempora/Pasc5-4:Responsory3

[Lectio4]
From the Sermons of St Austin, Bishop of Hippo.
!3rd on the Ascension, 176th on the Season.
Dearly beloved brethren, all the wonderful works which our Lord Jesus Christ did in this world, under the weakness of our nature, are profitable for us when He exalted His Manhood above the stars, He showed that heaven may open for a believer and while He, the Conqueror of death, went up into the heavenly mansions, He showed to him that overcometh, whither he also may follow. Therefore, the ascension of the Lord is the seal of the Catholic Faith, which assureth in us the hope of the gift which is yet to come to us, from a miracle whereof we already feel the fruits. Thus let every one that is faithful, having already received so much, learn to hope for that which is promised, on the ground of that which he knoweth to have been given, and hold the goodness of God in times which have been, and times which now are, as a sure pledge of the same in times to come.

[Lectio5]
An earthly Body, then, is now lifted up above the heights of heaven the Bones, Which but a little while before had lain within the narrow walls of the grave, have made their entry among the angelic hosts human nature hath been given a place in the lap of immortality and therefore the Apostle whose account we have heard read, saith "When He had spoken these things, while they beheld, He was taken up." (Acts i. 9.) While thou hearest these words, " taken up," thou must understand thereby the ministry of the angelic army whereby this Festival revealeth to us the Mystery of Him who is both God and Man. United in One Person, we see in Him who lifted up, Divine Power, and in Him Who was lifted up, very Man.

[Lectio6]
Therefore are utterly to be loathed those pestiferous teachings of Eastern falsehood, those brandnew inventions of ungodliness * which dare to assert that He Who in One Person is both Son of God and Son of Man, hath but one nature. On the one hand, if a man say that Christ is not Partaker of the Divine nature, he hath denied the glory of his Maker on the other, he who saith that the Manhood~
is not of the nature of man, hath denied the mercy of his Saviour. As touching these points, it is wellnigh impossible for an Arian to believe that the Gospel writers are any better than liars, since they distinctly assert in some places that the Son of God is equal, and, in others, that He is inferior, to the~
Father. Farther, if a man be given over to this soul-slaying delusion of believing that our Saviour hath only one nature, he must of necessity admit either that it was only God, or that it was only man who was crucified. But it was not so. If He had been of no nature but the Divine, He could not have suffered, and if He had been of no nature but the human, He could not have conquered death.

[Lectio7]
Evangélium szent Márk Evangélista kõnyvébõl
!Mark 16:14-20
Azon idõben Jézus a tizenegynek jelent meg, amikor egyszer asztalnál ültek. Szemükre vetette hitetlenségüket és keményszívûségüket, hogy nem hittek azoknak, akik feltámadása után látták. És így tovább.
_
Homily by Pope St Gregory the Great.
!Same as before.
The Prophet Habakkuk also hath spoken of the glory of Christ's Ascension in the words "The sun was lifted up on high, and the moon stood still in her habitation," Who is here signified by the Sun, if not the Saviour or by the Moon, if not the Church? Until the Lord was withdrawn from her sight, (that is, by His Ascension,) His Holy Church was pale before the hostile glare of the world, but after He was ascended, she waxed stronger, and distinctly shed forth~
the beams of that faith which had hitherto dwelt hiddenly in her. "The sun was lifted up, and the moon stood still in her habitation" when the Lord was gone away into heaven, His holy Church waxed stronger in her enlightening power.

[Lectio8]
Hence it is that Solomon hath put into the mouth of the, (same) Church the words: "Behold,; He cometh! leaping upon the mountains, skipping upon the hills These hills are his lofty and; noble achievements. "Behold, He cometh leaping upon the mountains" When He came to redeem us, He came, if I may so say, in leaps. My dearly beloved brethren, would you know what His leaps were? From heaven he leapt into the womb' of the Virgin, from the womb into the manger, from the manger on to the Cross, from the Cross into the grave, and from the grave up to heaven. Lo, how the Truth made manifest in the Flesh did leap for our sakes, that He might draw us to run after Him for this end did He " rejoice, as a strong man to run a race,

[Lectio9]
Therefore, dearly beloved brethren, it behoveth us in heart and mind thither to ascend, where we believe Him to have already ascended bodily. Let us fly earthly lusts for us, who have a Father in heaven, let nothing be sweet below And very much must we keep in our minds this thought, that He Which ascended up in peace, will return in dreadful Majesty and will require from us with justice an account of our keeping of those commandments which He gave us in mercy. Let no man therefore reckon lightly this season which is given unto us that we may repent ourselves, nor be reckless touching the state of his soul; our Redeemer will be all the sterner, when He cometh to judgment, as He hath been wondrously long-suffering before.
&teDeum
