[Rank]
SS. Apostolorum Petri et Pauli;;Duplex I classis cum octava communi;;6.5;;ex C1

[Rank1960]
SS. Apostolorum Petri et Pauli;;Duplex classis;;6;;ex C1

[Rule]
ex C1;
9 lectiones
Psalmi Dominica
Antiphonas horas
nor commemoratio

[Ant Vespera]
Peter and John * went up together into the Temple at the hour of prayer, being the ninth hour.;;109
Silver and gold have I none, * but such as I have, give I thee.;;110
The Angel said unto Peter * Cast thy garment about thee, and follow me.;;111
The Lord hath sent * His Angel, and hath delivered me out of the hand of Herod. Alleluia.;;112
Thou art Peter * and upon this Rock I will build My Church.;;116

[Capitulum Vespera]
!Acts 12:1-3
v. Heródes király elfogatta az egyház néhány tagját, hogy ártson nekik. János testvérét, Jakabot karddal kivégeztette. Amikor látta, hogy ezzel megnyerheti a zsidók tetszését, azon volt, hogy Pétert is elfogassa.
$Deo gratias

[Hymnus Vespera]
{:H-Decoralux:}v. Az öröklétnek fényessége önti el
Boldogságos tüzekkel ez arany napot,
Ma nyert a két apostol-elsô koronát
S a bûnösök a csillagokba nyílt utat.
_
Mennynek portása, föld tanítómestere,
Róma szülôi, nemzetek bírái ôk,
Karddal s kereszttel a halálon gyôztesek.
Ülik immár az öröklét szenátusát.
_
Ó boldog Róma, melyet két fejedelem
Avat ma szentté drágalátos vérivel.
Több vagy e vérnek bíborában egymagad,
A földkerekség minden szépségeinél.
_
A Háromságnak örök dicsôség legyen
És tisztelet és ujjongás és hatalom,
Az Egységben, ki mindenen kormánykodik,
Az öröklétnek minden századain át.
Ámen.

[Ant 1]
Thou art the Shepherd of the sheep * and the Prince of the Apostles, and unto thee are given the keys of the kingdom of heaven.

[Oratio]
O God, Who didst hallow this day by the Testifying of thine Holy Apostles Peter and Paul, grant unto thy Church, whose foundations Thou wast pleased to lay by their hands, the grace always in all things to remain faithful to their teaching.
$Per Dominum

[Lectio1]
Olvasmány az Apostolok Cselekedeibõl
!Acts 3:1-5
1 Péter és János a kilencórai imádság idején fölment a templomba.
2 Éppen akkor vittek oda egy bénán született embert, akit mindennap letettek a templom úgynevezett Ékes-kapujánál, hogy a templomba menõktõl alamizsnát kérjen.
3 Amikor meglátta Pétert és Jánost, amint épp be akartak menni a templomba, alamizsnáért könyörgött.
4 Péter Jánossal együtt rátekintett, és így szólt hozzá: "Nézz ránk!"
5 Erre rájuk emelte tekintetét, abban a reményben, hogy kap tõlük valamit.

[Responsory1]
R. Simon Peter, before I called thee out of the ship, I knew thee, and appointed thee for a captain over My people.
*And I have given unto thee the keys of the kingdom of heaven.
V. Whatsoever thou shalt bind on earth, shall be bound in heaven and whatsoever thou shalt loose on earth, shall be loosed in heaven.
R. And I have given unto thee the keys of the kingdom of heaven.

[Lectio2]
!Acts 3:6-10
6 Péter azonban ezt mondta neki: "Aranyom, ezüstöm nincs, de amim van, neked adom: A názáreti Jézus Krisztus nevében (állj fel és) járj!"
7 Jobb kezénél fogva fölsegítette, mire annak nyomban erõ szállt a lábába és a bokájába.
8 Egy ugrással talpon volt, és tudott járni. Velük együtt bement a templomba, járkált, ugrándozott és dicsõítette az Istent.
9 Az egész nép látta, hogy jár és dicsõíti az Istent.
10 Amikor ráismertek, hogy õ szokott ott ülni a templom Ékes-kapujánál alamizsnát koldulva, nem tudták, hová legyenek azon való csodálkozásukban, ami vele történt.

[Responsory2]
R. Simon Peter, if thou lovest Me, feed My sheep. Lord, Thou knowest that I love thee.
* I will lay down my life for thy sake.
V. If I should die with thee, I will not deny thee.
R. I will lay down my life for thy sake.

[Lectio3]
!Acts 3:11-16
11 Mivel nem tágított Péter és János mellõl, odagyûlt köréjük csodálkozva az egész nép az úgynevezett Salamon-csarnokba.
12 Amikor Péter ezt látta, beszédet intézett a néphez: "Izraelita férfiak! Miért csodálkoztok ezen, miért bámultok úgy ránk, mintha a saját erõnkbõl vagy jámborságunk folytán értük volna el, hogy ez járni tudjon?
13 Ábrahám, Izsák és Jákob Istene megdicsõítette a Fiát, Jézust, akit ti kiszolgáltattatok és megtagadtatok Pilátus elõtt, noha õ úgy határozott, hogy szabadon bocsátja.
14 Megtagadtátok a szentet és igazat; arra kértétek, hogy a gyilkosnak kegyelmezzen,
15 az élet szerzõjét pedig megöltétek. Isten azonban feltámasztotta a halálból, ennek mi tanúi vagyunk.
16 Mert hittel segítségül hívtuk a nevét, erõt öntött ebbe az emberbe, akit itt láttok és akit ismertek. A tõle való hit visszaadta neki épségét mindannyiótok szeme láttára.

[Responsory3]
R. Thou art Peter, and upon this rock I will build My Church, and the gates of hell shall not prevail against it.
* And I will give unto thee the keys of the kingdom of heaven.
V. Whatsoever thou shalt bind on earth, shall be bound in heaven and whatsoever thou shalt loose on earth, shall be loosed in heaven.
R. And I will give unto thee the keys of the kingdom of heaven.
&Gloria
R. And I will give unto thee the keys of the kingdom of heaven.

[Lectio4]
From the Sermons of Pope St Leo the Great.
!First for the Birthday of the Holy Apostles Peter and Paul.
Dearly beloved brethren, in the joy of all the holy Feast-days the whole world~
is partaker. There is but one love of God, and whatsoever is solemnly called to memory, if it hath been done for the salvation of all, must needs be worth the honour of a joyful memorial at the hands of all. Nevertheless, this feast which we are keeping to-day, besides that world-wide worship which it doth of right get throughout all the earth, doth deserve from this city of ours an outburst of gladness altogether special and our own. In this place it was that the two chiefest of the Apostles did so right gloriously finish their race. And upon this day whereon they lifted up that their last testimony, let it be in this place that the memory thereof receiveth the chiefest of jubilant celebrations. O Rome these twain are the men who brought the light of the Gospel of Christ to shine upon thee These are they by whom thou, from being the teacher of lies, wast turned into a learner of the truth.

[Responsory4]
R. Lord, if it be Thou, bid me come unto thee on the water
* And Jesus stretched forth His Hand, and caught him, and said unto him O thou of little faith, wherefore didst thou doubt
V. But when he saw the wind boisterous, he was afraid and, beginning to sink, he cried, saying Lord, save me
R. And Jesus stretched forth His Hand, and caught him, and said unto him O thou of little faith, wherefore didst thou doubt

[Lectio5]
These twain be thy fathers, these be in good sooth thy shepherds, these twain be they who laid for thee, as touching the kingdom of heaven, better and happier foundations, than did they that first planned thine earthly ramparts, wherefrom he that gave thee thy name took occasion to pollute thee with a brother's blood. 1 These are they who have set on thine head this thy glorious crown, that thou art become an holy nation, a chosen people, a city both Priestly and Kingly, whom the Sacred Throne of blessed Peter hath exalted till thou art become the Lady of the world, unto whom the world-wide love for God hath conceded a broader lordship than is the possession of any mere earthly empire. Thou wast once waxen great by victories, until thy power was spread haughtily over land and sea, but thy power was narrower then which the toils of war had won for thee, than that thou now hast which hath been laid at thy feet by the peace of Christ.

[Responsory5]
R. Arise, O Peter! Cast thy garment about thee, gird thee with strength for the saving of the nations.
* The chains are fallen off from thine hands.
V. The Angel of the Lord came upon him, and a light shined in the prison and he smote Peter on the side and raised him up, saying Arise up quickly.
R. The chains are fallen off from thine hands.

[Lectio6]
It well suited for the doing of the work which God had decreed that the multitude of kingdoms should be bound together under one rule, and that so the universal preaching of the Gospel should find easier entry into all peoples, since all were governed by the empire of one city. But this city, knowing not Him, Who had been pleased to make her great, used her lordship over almost all nations to make herself the minister of all their falsehoods and seemed to herself exceeding godly because there was no false god whom she rejected. But the tighter that Satan had bound her, the more wondrous was the work of Christ in setting her free.

[Responsory6]
R. Thou art the Shepherd of the sheep, and the Prince of the Apostles, and unto thee hath God given all the kingdoms of the world.
* Therefore unto thee hath He given the keys of the kingdom of heaven.
V. Whatsoever thou shalt bind on earth shall be bound in heaven and whatsoever thou shalt loose on earth shall be loosed in heaven.
R. Therefore unto thee hath He given the keys of the kingdom of heaven.
&Gloria
R. Therefore unto thee hath He given the keys of the kingdom of heaven.

[Lectio7]
Evangélium szent Máté Apostol kõnyvébõl
!Matt 16:13-19
Amikor Jézus Fülöp Cezáreájának vidékére ért, megkérdezte tanítványaitól: "Kinek tartják az emberek az Emberfiát?" És így tovább
_
Homily by St Jerome, Priest at Bethlehem.
!Bk. iii. Comment, on Matth. xvi.
Who do men say that I, the Son of man, am This question is well put, for they who speak of Him as the Son of man are men, while they that know of Him that He is God are called not men but gods. And they said Some say that Thou art John the Baptist, some, Elias I marvel that some commentators have thought it worth their while to search into the origin of each of these blunders, and to engage in a discussion of weary length as to why some thought that our Lord Jesus Christ was John the Baptist, some, Elias and others, Jeremias, or one of the Prophets. Their blunders concerning Elias and Jeremias were but of a piece with Herod's concerning John the Baptist It is John, whom I beheaded he is risen from the dead and therefore mighty works do show forth themselves in him. (Mark vi. 16, 14.)

[Responsory7]
R. Peter, I have prayed for thee, that thy faith fail not
* And when thou art converted, strengthen thy brethren.
V. Flesh and blood hath not revealed it unto thee, but My Father Which is in heaven.
R. And when thou art converted, strengthen thy brethren.

[Lectio8]
But who say ye that I am? Mark, discreet reader, from the context, that a distinction is here drawn between the Apostles and mere men. The Apostles are called gods. Who, asketh the Lord, do men say that I am but, on the other hand, who say ye that I am They being but men deal in human speculations, but ye that are gods, who be ye persuaded that I am And then Peter, as the representative of all the Apostles, uttered the testimony Thou art the Christ, the Son of the living God. He calleth God living, to mark the difference between Him and all other that be called gods, and who are indeed dead.

[Responsory8]
R. Jesus asked His disciples, saying Who do men say that I, the Son of man, am Peter answered and said Thou art the Christ, the Son of the living God.
* And I say unto thee, that thou art Peter, and upon this rock I will build My Church.
V. Blessed art thou, Simon Bar-jona, for flesh and blood hath not revealed it unto thee, but My Father Which is in heaven.
R. And I say unto thee, that thou art Peter, and upon this rock I will build My Church.
&Gloria
R. And I say unto thee, that thou art Peter, and upon this rock I will build My Church.

[Lectio9]
And Jesus answered and said unto him Blessed art thou, Simon Bar-jona. The Apostle having testified of the Lord, the Lord in turn testifieth of the Apostle. Peter had said Thou art the Christ, the Son of the living God and he received, in return for that his testimony to the truth, the words Blessed art thou, Simon Bar-jona. Why, blessed? For flesh and blood hath not revealed it~
unto thee, but My Father. What flesh and blood could not reveal, the grace of the Holy Ghost had revealed. Meet for him therefore, because of his confession, is his name, as the name of one who hath revelation from the Holy Ghost, and therefore is called His son. Bar-jona is, being interpreted, Theson-of-the-Dove.
&teDeum

[Ant Laudes]
Peter and John * went up together into the Temple at the hour of prayer, being the ninth hour.
Silver and gold have I none, * but such as I have, give I thee.
The Angel said unto Peter * Cast thy garment about thee, and follow me.
The Lord hath sent * His Angel, and hath delivered me out of the hand of Herod. Alleluia.
Thou art Peter * and upon this Rock I will build My Church.

[Capitulum Laudes]
!Acts 12:1-3
v. Heródes király elfogatta az egyház néhány tagját, hogy ártson nekik. János testvérét, Jakabot karddal kivégeztette. Amikor látta, hogy ezzel megnyerheti a zsidók tetszését, azon volt, hogy Pétert is elfogassa.
$Deo gratias

[Hymnus Laudes]
{:H-BeatepastorPetre:}v. Ó boldog pásztor, Péter, hallgasd kegyesen
Esdô imánkat, és igéd oldozza fel
Bûnünk bilincsét, hisz tenéked adatott
A hatalom: megnyitni s zárni mennyeket.
_
Ó drága doktor, Pál, neveld erkölcseink
És vond magaddal lelkeinket ég felé,
Hol fátyolos hitünk egykor délszínre jut,
És napja egy és papja egy: a szeretet.
_
A Háromságnak örök dicsôség legyen.
És tisztelet és ujjongás és hatalom,
Az Egységben, ki mindenen kormánykodik,
Az öröklétnek minden századain át.
Ámen.

[Ant 2]
Whatsoever thou shalt bind * on earth, shall be bound in heaven and whatsoever thou shalt loose on earth shall be loosed in heaven, saith the Lord to Simon Peter.

[Lectio Prima]
!Acts 12:11
v. Amikor Péter föleszmélt, megszólalt: - "Most már csakugyan tudom, hogy az Úr elküldte angyalát, és kiszabadított Heródes kezébõl, s abból, amire a zsidó nép számított."

[Capitulum Tertia]
!Acts 12:1-3
v. Heródes király elfogatta az egyház néhány tagját, hogy ártson nekik. János testvérét, Jakabot karddal kivégeztette. Amikor látta, hogy ezzel megnyerheti a zsidók tetszését, azon volt, hogy Pétert is elfogassa.
$Deo gratias

[Responsory Tertia]
R.br. Their sound hath gone * forth into all the earth
R. Their sound hath gone * forth into all the earth:
V. And their words unto the ends of the world.
R. Forth into all the earth:
&Gloria
R. Their sound hath gone * forth into all the earth:
_
V. Thou shalt make them princes over all the earth
R. They shall remember thy name, O Lord

[Capitulum Sexta]
!Acts 12:5
v. Míg Pétert fogva tartották a börtönben, az egyház állandóan imádkozott érte az Istenhez.
$Deo gratias

[Responsory Sexta]
R.br. Thou shalt make them princes * over all the earth
R. Thou shalt make them princes * over all the earth
V. They shall remember thy name, O Lord
R. All over the earth.
&Gloria
R. Thou shalt make them princes * over all the earth.
_
V. O God, are made exceedingly honourable:
R. Their principality is exceedingly strengthened.

[Capitulum Nona]
!Acts 12:11
v. Amikor Péter föleszmélt, megszólalt: - "Most már csakugyan tudom, hogy az Úr elküldte angyalát, és kiszabadított Heródes kezébõl, s abból, amire a zsidó nép számított."
$Deo gratias

[Responsory Nona]
R.br. Your friends O God * are made exceedingly honourable
R. O God, your friends * are made exceedingly honourable
V. Their principality is exceedingly strengthened.
R. Are made exceedingly honourable
&Gloria
R. O God, your friends *are made exceedingly honourable
_
V. Annuntiaverunt opera Dei.
R. Et facta ejus intellexerunt.

[Ant Vespera 3]
The Lord hath worn * and will not repent Thou irt a Priest for ever;;109
That the Lord may set him * with the princes of His people;;112
O Lord, Thou last loosed my bonds * I will offer thee the sacrifice of thanksgiving;;115
They went forth weeping * sowing their seed;;125
O God, thy friends are honourable * their power is waxen right strong;;138

[Versum 3]
V. Annuntiaverunt opera Dei.
R. Et facta ejus intellexerunt.

[Ant 3]
This is the day * whereon Simon Peter went up upon the gibbet of the cross Alleluia this day did he, that holdeth the keys of the kingdom, depart hence with joy to be with Christ this day did the Apostle Paul, the light of the whole world, bow his head, and for Christ's name's sake receive the crown of his testimony. Aleluia.

[Octava 1]
!Commemoratio Octavae Ss. Apostoli Petri et Pauli
Ant. Glorious princes of the Earth * as in this life you were honored together, you are not separated by death.
_
V. Thou shalt make them princes over all the earth
R. They shall remember thy name, O Lord
_
!Könyörgés
O God, Who didst hallow this day by the Testifying of thine Holy Apostles Peter and Paul, grant unto thy Church, whose foundations Thou wast pleased to lay by their hands, the grace always in all things to remain faithful to their teaching.
$Per Dominum

[Octava 2]
!Commemoratio Octavae Ss. Petri et Pauli
Ant. Glorious princes of the Earth, as in this life you were honored together, you are not separated by death
_
V. Their sound hath gone forth into all the earth:
R. And their words unto the ends of the world.
_
!Könyörgés.
O God, Who didst hallow this day by the Testifying of thine Holy Apostles Peter and Paul, grant unto thy Church, whose foundations Thou wast pleased to lay by their hands, the grace always in all things to remain faithful to their teaching.
$Per Dominum
