[Rank]
S. Titi Episc. et Confessoris;;Duplex;;3;;vide C4

[Rule]
vide C4;
Gloria

[Introitus]
!Sir 45:30
v. The Lord made a covenant of friendship with him, and made him a prince; that he should possess the dignity of priesthood forever.
!Ps 131:1
Remember, O Lord, David and all his meekness.
&Gloria
v. The Lord made a covenant of friendship with him, and made him a prince; that he should possess the dignity of priesthood forever.

[Oratio]
O God, Who adorned blessed Titus, Your Confessor and Bishop, with the virtues of an apostle, grant, through his merits and intercession, that by living justly and piously in this world, we may be found worthy to enter heaven.
$Per Dominum

[Commemoratio Oratio]
!For St. Dorothy, Virgin and Martyr
May blessed Dorothy, Virgin and Martyr, who was ever pleasing to You by the merit of her chastity and by her trust in Your power, implore for us Your forgiveness, we beseech You, O Lord.
$Per Dominum

[Lectio]
Lesson from the book of Ecclesiasticus
!Ecclus 44:16-27; 45:3-20
Behold, a great priest, who in his days pleased God, and was found just; and in the time of wrath he was made a reconciliation. There was not found the like to him, who kept the law of the Most High. Therefore, by an oath, the Lord made him to increase among his people. He gave him the blessing of all nations, and confirmed His covenant upon his head. He acknowledged him in His blessings; He preserved for him His mercy; and he found grace before the eyes of the Lord. He glorified him in the sight of kings, and gave him a crown of glory. To execute the office of the priesthood, and to have praise in His name, and to offer Him a worthy incense for an odor of sweetness.

[Graduale]
!Sir 44:16
Behold, a great priest, who in his days pleased God.
!Sir 44:20
V. There was not found the like to him, who kept the law of the Most High. Alleluia, alleluia.
!Ps 109:4
You are a priest forever, according to the order of Melchisedec. Alleluia.

[Tractus]
!Sir 44:16, 20
Behold, a great priest, who in his days pleased God.
V. There was not found the like to him, who kept the law of the Most High. 
!Ps 111:1-3
Happy the man who fears the Lord, who greatly delights in His commands.
V. His posterity shall be mighty upon the earth; the upright generation shall be blessed.
V. Wealth and riches shall be in his house; his generosity shall endure forever.

[Evangelium]
Continuation + of the Holy Gospel according to Luke
!Luke 10:1-9
At that time, the Lord appointed seventy-two others, and sent them forth two by two before Him into every town and place where He Himself was about to come. And He said to them, The harvest indeed is great, but the laborers are few. Pray therefore the Lord of the harvest to send forth laborers into His harvest. Go. Behold, I send you forth as lambs in the midst of wolves. Carry neither purse, nor wallet, nor sandals, and greet no one on the way. Whatever house you enter, first say, ‘Peace to this house!’ And if a son of peace be there, your peace will rest upon him; but if not, it will return to you. And remain in the same house, eating and drinking what they have; for the laborer deserves his wages. Do not go from house to house. And whatever town you enter, and they receive you, eat what is set before you, and cure the sick who are there, and say to them, ‘The kingdom of God is at hand for you.’

[Offertorium]
!Ps 88:21-22
I have found David, My servant; with My holy oil I have anointed him, that My hand may be always with him, and that My arm may make him strong.

[Secreta]
May Your Saints, we beseech You, O Lord, everywhere make us joyful: so that, while we reflect upon their merits, we may enjoy their help.
$Per Dominum

[Commemoratio Secreta]
!For St. Dorothy
Graciously accept the sacrificial gifts offered You, O Lord, through the merits of blessed Dorothy, Your Virgin and Martyr, and grant they may prove an unfailing aid for us.
$Per Dominum

[Communio]
!Luke 12:42
The faithful and prudent servant whom the master will set over his household to give them their ration of grain in due time.

[Postcommunio]
Grant, we beseech You, almighty God, that as we thank You for the favors we have received, we may, by the intercession of blessed Titus, Your Confessor and Bishop, obtain still greater blessings.
$Per Dominum

[Commemoratio Postcommunio]
!For St. Dorothy
We who have been refreshed by the richness of Your divine sacrament beseech You, O Lord our God, that through the intercession of blessed Dorothy, Your Virgin and Martyr, we may forevermore abide in its participation.
$Per Dominum
