[Rank]
S. Matthiae Apostoli;;Duplex II classis;;5.1;;ex C1

[Rank1960]
S. Matthiae Apostoli;;Duplex II classis;;5;;ex C1

[Rule]
ex C1;
Gloria
Credo
Prefatio=Apostolis

[Introitus]
!Ps 138:17
v. To me, Your friends, O God, are made exceedingly honorable; their principality is exceedingly strengthened.
!Ps 138:1-2
O Lord, You have probed me and You know me; You know when I sit and when I stand.
&Gloria
v. To me, Your friends, O God, are made exceedingly honorable; their principality is exceedingly strengthened.

[Oratio]
God, Who added blessed Matthias to the company of Your Apostles, grant, we beseech You, that by his intercession we may ever be aware of the depth of Your love for us.
$Per Dominum

[Lectio]
Lesson from the Acts of Apostles
!Acts 1:15-26
In those days, Peter stood up in the midst of the brethren - now the number of persons met together was about a hundred and twenty - and he said, Brethren, the Scripture must be fulfilled which the Holy Spirit declared before by the mouth of David concerning Judas, who was the guide of those who arrested Jesus; inasmuch as he had been numbered among us and was allotted his share in this ministry. And he indeed bought a field with the price of his iniquity and, being hanged, burst asunder in the midst, and all his bowels gushed out. And it became known to all the residents of Jerusalem, so that the field came to be called in their language Haceldama, that is, the Field of Blood. For it is written in the book of Psalms, ‘Let their habitation become desolate and let there be none to dwell in it.’ And, ‘His ministry let another take.’ Therefore, of these men who have been in our company all the time that the Lord Jesus moved among us, from John’s baptism until the day that He was taken up from us, of these one must become a witness with us of His Resurrection.” And they put forward two: Joseph, called Barsabbas, who was surnamed Justus, and Matthias. And they prayed and said, You, Lord, Who know the hearts of all, show which of these two You have chosen to take the place in this ministry and apostleship from which Judas fell away to go to his own place. And they drew lots between them, and the lot fell upon Matthias; and he was numbered with the eleven apostles.

[Graduale]
!Ps 138:17-18
Your friends, O God, are exceedingly honorable; their principality is exceedingly strengthened.
V. Were I to recount them, they would outnumber the sands.

[Tractus]
!Ps 138:17-18
Your friends, O God, are exceedingly honorable; their principality is exceedingly strengthened.
V. Were I to recount them, they would outnumber the sands.
!Ps 20:3-4
You have granted him his heart’s desire. You refused not the wish of his lips.
V. For You welcomed him with goodly blessings.
V. You placed on his head a crown of pure gold.

[Evangelium]
Continuation + of the Holy Gospel according to Matthew
!Matt 11:25-30
At that time, Jesus spoke and said, I praise You, Father, Lord of heaven and earth, that You hid these things from the wise and prudent, and revealed them to little ones. Yes, Father, for such was Your good pleasure. All things have been delivered to Me by My Father; and no one knows the Son except the Father; nor does anyone know the Father except the Son, and him to whom the Son chooses to reveal Him. Come to Me, all you who labor and are burdened, and I will give you rest. Take My yoke upon you, and learn from Me, for I am meek and humble of heart; and you will find rest for your souls. For My yoke is easy, and My burden light.

[Offertorium]
!Ps 44:17-18
You shall make them princes through all the land; they shall remember Your name, O Lord, through all generations.

[Secreta]
May the prayer of Your holy Apostle Matthias, O Lord, accompany the sacrificial gifts which we offer to be hallowed in Your name, so that we may obtain pardon and protection.
$Per Dominum

[Communio]
!Matt 19:28
You who have followed Me shall sit on thrones judging the twelve tribes of Israel.

[Postcommunio]
Grant, almighty God, we pray You, that through the intercession of blessed Matthias, Your Apostle, we may obtain pardon and peace through the holy things of which we have partaken.
$Per Dominum
