[Rank]
S. Gabrielis Archangeli;;Duplex majus;;4

[Rule]
Gloria
CredoDa

[Introitus]
!Ps 102:20
v. Bless the Lord, all you His Angels, you mighty in strength, who do His bidding, obeying His spoken word. (Alleluia, alleluia.)
!Ps 102:1
Bless the Lord, O my soul; and, all my being, bless His holy name.
&Gloria
v. Bless the Lord, all you His Angels, you mighty in strength, who do His bidding, obeying His spoken word. (Alleluia, alleluia.)

[Oratio]
O God, Who, out of all the angels, chose the Archangel Gabriel to announce the mystery of Your incarnation, mercifully grant that we who keep his feast on earth, may have him as our patron in heaven.
$Qui vivis

[Lectio]
Lesson from the book of Daniel
!Dan 9:21-26.
In those days, behold, Gabriel, the one whom I had seen before in vision, came to me in rapid flight at the time of the evening sacrifice. He instructed me in these words: Daniel, I have now come to give you understanding. When you began your petition, an answer was given which I have come to announce, because you are beloved. Therefore, mark the answer and understand the vision. ‘Seventy weeks are decreed for your people and for your holy city: then transgression will stop and sin will end, guilt will be expiated, everlasting justice will be introduced, vision and prophecy ratified, and a Most Holy will be anointed. Know and understand this: from the utterance of the word that Jerusalem was to be rebuilt until one who is anointed and a leader, there shall be seven weeks. During sixty-two weeks it shall be rebuilt, with streets and trenches, in time of affliction. After the sixty-two weeks an anointed shall be cut down when he does not possess the city; and the people of a leader who will come shall destroy the sanctuary. Then the end shall come like a torrent; until the end there shall be war, the desolation that is decreed.’

[Tractus]
!Ps 102:20, 1
Bless the Lord, all you His Angels, you mighty in strength, who do His bidding.
V. Bless the Lord, O my soul; and, all my being, bless His holy name.
!Luke 1:28, 42, 31, 35
Hail, Mary, full of grace, the Lord is with you.
V. Blessed are you among women and blessed is the fruit of your womb.
V. Behold, you shall conceive and shall bring forth a Son, and you shall call His name Emmanuel.
V. The Holy Spirit shall come upon you and the power of the Most High shall over-shadow you.
V. And therefore the Holy One to be born shall be called the Son of God. During 

[GradualeP]
Alleluia, alleluia.
V. Ps 103:4 You make the winds Your Angels, and flaming fire Your ministers. Alleluia.
V. Luke 1:28 Hail, Mary, full of grace, the Lord is with you; blessed are you among women. Alleluia.

[Evangelium]
Continuation + of the Holy Gospel according to Luke
!Luke 1:26-38.
 At that time, the angel Gabriel was sent from God to a town of Galilee called Nazareth, to a virgin betrothed to a man named Joseph, of the house of David, and the virgin’s name was Mary. And when the angel had come to her, he said, Hail, full of grace, the Lord is with you. Blessed are you among women. When she had heard him she was troubled at his word, and kept pondering what manner of greeting this might be. And the angel said to her, Do not be afraid, Mary, for you have found grace with God. Behold, you shall conceive in your womb and shall bring forth a Son; and you shall call His name Jesus. He shall be great, and shall be called the Son of the Most High; and the Lord God will give Him the throne of David His father, and He shall be king over the house of Jacob forever; and of His kingdom there shall be no end. But Mary said to the angel, How shall this happen, since I do not know man? And the angel answered and said to her, The Holy Spirit shall come upon you, and the power of the Most High shall overshadow you; and therefore the Holy One to be born shall be called the Son of God. And behold, Elizabeth your kinswoman also has conceived a son in her old age, and she who was called barren is now in her sixth month; for nothing shall be impossible with God. But Mary said, Behold the handmaid of the Lord; be it done to me according to your word.

[Offertorium]
!Apoc 8:3-4.
An Angel stood near the altar of the temple, having a golden censer in his hand, and there was given to him much incense: and the smoke of the perfumes went up before God.

[Secreta]
May this gift from us, Your servants, and the prayer of the blessed Archangel Gabriel be acceptable in Your sight, O Lord, so that he whom we honor on earth may plead our cause with You in heaven.
$Per Dominum

[Communio]
!Dan 3:58
All you Angels of the Lord, bless the Lord: sing a hymn, and exalt Him above all forever.

[Postcommunio]
O God, our Lord, having received the sacrament of Your Body and Blood, we ask of Your mercy that, as Your incarnation was made known to us by the message of Gabriel, so by his help we may reap the benefits of that same incarnation.
$Qui vivis
