[Rank]
S. Pauli a Cruce Confessoris;;Duplex;;3;;vide C5

[Rule]

[Introitus]
!Gal 2:19-20
v.  With Christ I am nailed to the cross. And I live, now not I; but Christ liveth in me. And that I live now in the flesh: I live in the faith of the Son of God, who loved me, and delivered himself for me, alleluja, alleluja.
!Ps 40:2
v. Blessed is he that understandeth concerning the needy and the poor: the Lord will deliver him in the evil day. 
&Gloria
v.  With Christ I am nailed to the cross. And I live, now not I; but Christ liveth in me. And that I live now in the flesh: I live in the faith of the Son of God, who loved me, and delivered himself for me, alleluja, alleluja.

[Oratio]
Lord Jesus Christ, Who didst gift thine holy servant Paul with great love that~
he might preach the mystery of thy cross, and hast been pleased that through him a~
new family should grow up in thy Church, grant unto us at his prayers that upon~
earth we may so call thy sufferings to mind as worthily to gain the fruit~
thereof in heaven.
$Qui vivis

[Commemoratio Oratio]
!For St. Vitalis, Martyr
Grant we beseech the almighty God, that we who celebrate the martyrdom of~
blessed Vitalis, through his intercession be strengtened in your love 
$Per Dominum

[Lectio]
Lesson from the first letter of St. Paul the Apostle to the Corinthians
!1 Cor 1:17-25.
v. Brothers: Christ sent me not to baptize, but to preach the gospel: not in wisdom of speech, lest the cross of Christ should be made void. For the word of the cross, to them indeed that perish, is foolishness; but to them that are saved, that is, to us, it is the power of God. For it is written: I will destroy the wisdom of the wise, and the prudence of the prudent I will reject. Where is the wise? Where is the scribe? Where is the disputer of this world? Hath not God made foolish the wisdom of this world? For seeing that in the wisdom of God the world, by wisdom, knew not God, it pleased God, by the foolishness of our preaching, to save them that believe. For both the Jews require signs, and the Greeks seek after wisdom: But we preach Christ crucified, unto the Jews indeed a stumbling-block, and unto the Gentiles foolishness: But unto them that are called, both Jews and Greeks, Christ the power of God, and the wisdom of God. For the foolishness of God is wiser than men; and the weakness of God is stronger than men.

[Graduale]
Alleluja, alleluja
!2 Cor 5:15
v.  And Christ died for all; that they also who live, may not now live to themselves, but unto him who died for them, and rose again. Alleluja.
!Rom 8:17
v.  And if sons, heirs also; heirs indeed of God, and joint heirs with Christ: yet so, if we suffer with him, that we may be also glorified with him. Alleluja.

[Graduale1]
!Gal 6:14
v.  But God forbid that I should glory, save in the cross of our Lord Jesus Christ; by whom the world is crucified to me, and I to the world.
!1 Cor 2:2
v.  For I judged not myself to know anything among you, but Jesus Christ, and him crucified. Alleluja, alleluja.
!1 Pet 2:21.
v. For unto this are you called: because Christ also suffered for us, leaving you an example that you should follow his steps. Alleluja.

[Tractus]
!1 Pet 4:1
v.  Christ therefore having suffered in the flesh, be you also armed with the same thought: for he that hath suffered in the flesh, hath ceased from sins:
!2 Cor 4:10
v.  Always bearing about in our body the mortification of Jesus, that the life also of Jesus may be made manifest in our bodies.
!Heb 12:2
v.  Looking on Jesus, the author and finisher of faith, who having joy set before him, endured the cross, despising the shame, and now sitteth on the right hand of the throne of God.

[Evangelium]
Continuation + of the Holy Gospel according to Luke
!Luke 10:1-9
v.  In that time: the Lord appointed also other seventy-two: and he sent them two and two before his face into every city and place whither he himself was to come. And he said to them: The harvest indeed is great, but the labourers are few. Pray ye therefore the Lord of the harvest, that he send labourers into his harvest. Go: Behold I send you as lambs among wolves. Carry neither purse, nor scrip, nor shoes; and salute no man by the way. Into whatsoever house you enter, first say: Peace be to this house. And if the son of peace be there, your peace shall rest upon him; but if not, it shall return to you. And in the same house, remain, eating and drinking such things as they have: for the labourer is worthy of his hire. Remove not from house to house. And into what city soever you enter, and they receive you, eat such things as are set before you. And heal the sick that are therein, and say to them: The kingdom of God is come nigh unto you.

[Offertorium]
!Eph 5:2
v.  And walk in love, as Christ also hath loved us, and hath delivered himself for us, an oblation and a sacrifice to God for an odour of sweetness.

[Secreta]
May these mysteries of thy passion and death, O Lord, fill us with that heavenly fervor, with which St. Paul, when he offered them presented his body as a living sacrifice, holy and pleasing unto thee.
$Qui vivis

[Commemoratio Secreta]
!For St. Vitalis, Martyr
As thou hast received our gifts and prayers, O Lord, cleanse us, we ask by thy heavenly mysteries, and graciously hear us.
$Per Dominum

[Communio]
!1 Pet 4:13
v.  But if you partake of the sufferings of Christ, rejoice that when his glory shall be revealed, you may also be glad with exceeding joy, alleluja.

[Postcommunio]
We have received, O Lord, the divine sacrament, which is a perpetual memorial, of thy boundless love; grant we pray, that through the merits and example of St. Paul, we may draw from thy fountains water springing up to life eternal, and in our life and conduct, we may keep thy most holy Passion ever impressed upon our hearts.
$Qui vivis

[Commemoratio Postcommunio]
!For St. Vitalis, Martyr
Grant, we pray, O Lord our God, that we who in time render joyful service in memory of thy saints, may be gladdened by their company in eternity.
$Per Dominum
