[Rank]
St Joseph the Worker;;Duplex I classis;;6;;

[RankNewcal]
St Joseph the Worker;;Duplex optional classis;;2;;

[Rule]
proper
Gloria
Credo
Prefatio=Joseph

[Introitus]
!Sap. 10:17
v. Wisdom rendered to the just the wages of their labors, and conducted them in a wonderful way: and she was to them for a covert by day, and for the light of stars by night, allelúja, allelúja.
!Ps 126:1
v. Unless the Lord build the house, they labor in vain who build it.
&Gloria
v. Wisdom rendered to the just the wages of their labors, and conducted them in a wonderful way: and she was to them for a covert by day, and for the light of stars by night, allelúja, allelúja.

[Oratio]
O God, Creator of all things, Who dost impose on man the law of work; grant in Thy goodness that, by the example and patronage of blessed Joseph, we may both accomplish the work Thou dost command and attain the reward Thou hast promised. 
$Per Dominum

[Lectio]
Lesson from the letter of St. Paul to the Colossians
!Col. 3:14-15, 17, 23-24
v. Brethren: Have charity, which is the bond of perfection. And let the peace of Christ rejoice in your hearts, wherein also you are called in one body: and be ye thankful. All whatsoever you do in word or in work, do all in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ, giving thanks to God and the Father by Him. Whatsoever you do, do it from the heart, as to the Lord, and not to men: knowing that you shall receive of the Lord the reward of inheritance. Serve ye the Lord Christ.

[Graduale]
Allelúja, allelúja.
v. In whatever tribulation they shall cry to me, I will hear them and be their protector always. Allelúja.
V. Obtain to us, O Joseph, to lead an innocent life; and may it ever be safe through thy patronage. Allelúja.

[Evangelium]
Continuation + of the Holy Gospel according to Matthew
!Matt 13:54-58
v. At that time: Jesus coming into His country, He taught them in their synagogues, so that they wondered and said: How came this Man by this wisdom and miracles? Is not this the carpenter's Son? Is not His mother called Mary, and His brethren James, and Joseph, and Simon, and Jude: and His sisters, are they not all with us? Whence therefore hath He all these things? And they were scandalized in His regard. But Jesus said to them: A prophet is not without honour, save in his own country, and in his own house. And He wrought not many miracles there, because of their unbelief.

[Offertorium]
!Ps 89:17
v. Let the brightness of the Lord our God be upon us: and direct Thou the works of our hands over us; yea, the work of our hands do Thou direct. Alleluia.

[Secreta]
May these gifts, the work of our hands, that we offer Thee in sacrifice, O Lord, become for us, by the intercession of blessed Joseph, a pledge of unity and peace.
$Per Dominum

[Communio]
!Matt 13:54-55
v. How came this Man by this wisdom and miracles? Is not this the carpenter's Son? Is not His mother called Mary? Alleluia.

[Postcommunio]
May these holy mysteries which we have received, O Lord, by the intercession of blessed Joseph, supply what is wanting in our works, and assure us of Thy rewards.
$Per Dominum
