[Rank]
Inventione Sanctae crucis;;Duplex II classis;;5.1;;

[Rule]
Gloria
CredoDA
Praefatio=Cruce

[Introitus]
!Gal 6:14
v.  But God forbid that I should glory, save in the cross of our Lord Jesus Christ; by whom the world is crucified to me, and I to the world, allelúja,~
allelúja.
!Ps 66:2
v.  May God have mercy on us, and bless us: may he cause the light of his countenance to shine upon us, and may he have mercy on us.
&Gloria
v.  But God forbid that I should glory, save in the cross of our Lord Jesus Christ; by whom the world is crucified to me, and I to the world, allelúja,~
allelúja.

[Oratio]
O God, Who didst cause that the Cross of our salvation should in most honourable~
wise be found again, and Who didst manifest thereby the marvellous efficacy of~
thy sufferings, mercifully grant that by the Ransom which Thou didst pay upon~
that tree of life we may finally attain unto life eternal .
$Qui vivis

[Lectio]
Lesson from the letter of St. Paul the Apostle to the Philippians
!Phil 2:5-11
v.  Brothers: For let this mind be in you, which was also in Christ Jesus: Who being in the form of God, thought it not robbery to be equal with God: But emptied himself, taking the form of a servant, being made in the likeness of men, and in habit found as a man. He humbled himself, becoming obedient unto death, even to the death of the cross. For which cause God also hath exalted him, and hath given him a name which is above all names: That in the name of Jesus every knee should bow, of those that are in heaven, on earth, and under the earth: And that every tongue should confess that the Lord Jesus Christ is in the glory of God the Father.

[Graduale]
Allelúja, allelúja
!Ps 95:10
v.  Say ye among the Gentiles, the Lord hath reigned from the wood. Allelúja.
V. Sweet woods, sweet nails, bearing a sweet weigth, which alone wast worthy to bear the King of heaven and the Lord. Allelúja.

[Evangelium]
Continuation + of the Holy Gospel according to John
!John 3:1-15
v. In that time: there was a man of the Pharisees, named Nicodemus, a ruler of the Jews. This man came to Jesus by night, and said to him: Rabbi, we know that thou art come a teacher from God; for no man can do these signs which thou dost, unless God be with him. Jesus answered, and said to him: Amen, amen I say to thee, unless a man be born again, he cannot see the kingdom of God. Nicodemus saith to him: How can a man be born when he is old? can he enter a second time into his mother's womb, and be born again? Jesus answered: Amen, amen I say to thee, unless a man be born again of water and the Holy Ghost, he cannot enter into the kingdom of God. That which is born of the flesh, is flesh; and that which is born of the Spirit, is spirit. Wonder not, that I said to thee, you must be born again. The Spirit breatheth where he will; and thou hearest his voice, but thou knowest not whence he cometh, and whither he goeth: so is every one that is born of the Spirit. Nicodemus answered, and said to him: How can these things be done? Jesus answered, and said to him: Art thou a master in Israel, and knowest not these things? Amen, amen I say to thee, that we speak what we know, and we testify what we have seen, and you receive not our testimony. If I have spoken to you earthly things, and you believe not; how will you believe, if I shall speak to you heavenly things? And no man hath ascended into heaven, but he that descended from heaven, the Son of man who is in heaven. And as Moses lifted up the serpent in the desert, so must the Son of man be lifted up: That whosoever believeth in him, may not perish; but may have life everlasting.

[Offertorium]
!Ps 117:16; 117:17
v.  The right hand of the Lord hath wrought strength: the right hand of the Lord hath exulted me: I shall not die, but live: and shall declare the works of the Lord, allelúja.

[Secreta]
Sacrifícium, Dómine, quod tibi immolámus, placátus inténde: ut ab omni nos éruat~
bellórum nequítia, et per vexíllum sanctæ Crucis Fílii tui, ad conteréndas~
potestátis advérsa? insídias, nos in tuæ protectiónis securitáte constítuat.
$Per eumdem

[Communio]
!  
By the sign of cross deliver us from our enemies, O thou our God, allelúja.

[Postcommunio]
Repléti alimónia coelésti et spiritáli poculo recreáti, quaesumus, omnípotens~
Deus: ut ab hoste malígno deféndas, quos per lignum sanctæ Crucis Fílii tui,~
arma justítiæ pro salúte mundi, triumpháre jussísti.
$Per eundem

[Commemoratio Oratio]
!Pro Ss. Alexandro I Papa, Eventio et Theodulo Mm. ac Juvenale Ep. et Conf.
Grant, we beseech You, almighty God, that we who commemorate the anniversary of~
the death of Your saints, Alexander, Eventius, Theodulus and Juvenal, may by~
their intercession be freed from all the evils that threaten us.
$Per Dominum

[Commemoratio Secreta]
!Pro Ss. Alexandro I Papa, Eventio et Theodulo Mm. ac Juvenale Ep. et Conf.
May a bountiful blessing, O Lord, descend upon these offerings and, through Your~
mercy, may it help to make us holy and to be joyful on the feast of the saints.
$Per Dominum.

[Commemoratio Postcommunio]
!Pro Ss. Alexandro I Papa, Eventio et Theodulo Mm. ac Juvenale Ep. et Conf.
With our strength renewed from having shared in Your sacred gift, we beseech You, O~
Lord our God, that by the intercession of Your saints Alexander, Eventius,~
Theodulus, and Juvenal we may feel the benefit of the worship we are offering.
$Per Dominum
