[Officium]
St. Augustine of Canterbury, Bishop and Confessor

[Introitus]
!Ps 131:9-10
v. May Your priests, O Lord, be clothed with justice; let Your faithful ones shout merrily for joy. For the sake of David Your servant, reject not the plea of Your anointed. (Alleluia, alleluia.)
!Ps 131:1
Remember, O Lord, David and all his meekness.
&Gloria
v. May Your priests, O Lord, be clothed with justice; let Your faithful ones shout merrily for joy. For the sake of David Your servant, reject not the plea of Your anointed. (Alleluia, alleluia.)

[Oratio]
O God, Who graciously enlightened the English peoples with the light of the true faith by the preaching and miracles of blessed Augustine, Your Confessor and Bishop, grant, through his intercession, that the hearts of those who have strayed may return to the unity of the true faith and that we may be in harmony with Your will.
$Per Dominum

[Lectio]
Lesson from the first letter of St. Paul the Apostle to the Thessalonians
!1 Thess 2:2-9
Brethren: We had confidence in our God to preach to you the gospel of God amid much anxiety. For our exhortation was not from error, nor from impure motives, nor from guile. But as approved by God to be entrusted with the gospel, so we speak not as pleasing men, but God, who proves our hearts. For at no time have we used words of flattery, as you know, nor any pretext for avarice, God is witness, nor have we sought glory from me, neither from you nor from others. Although as the apostles of Christ we could have claimed a position of honor among you, still while in your midst we were as children: as if a nurse were cherishing her own children, so we in our love for you would gladly have imparted to you not only the gospel of God, but also our own souls; because you had become most dear to us. For you remember, brethren, our labor and toil. We worked night and day so as not to be a burden to any of you while we preached to you the gospel of God.

[Graduale]
!Ps 131:16-17
Her priests I will clothe with salvation, and her faithful ones shall shout merrily for joy.
V. In her will I make a horn to spout for David; I will place a lamp for My anointed. Alleluia, alleluia.
!Ps 109:4
The Lord has sworn, and He will not repent: You are a priest forever, according to the order of Melchisedec. Alleluia.

[GradualeP]
!Ps 109:4
Alleluia, alleluia.
V. You are a priest forever, according to the order of Melchisedec. Alleluia.
!Eccli 45:9
V. The Lord loved him and adorned him; He clothed him with a robe of glory. Alleluia.

[Tractus]
!Ps 111:1-3
Happy the man who fears the Lord, who greatly delights in His commands.
V. His posterity shall be mighty upon the earth; the upright generation shall be blessed.
V. Wealth and riches shall be in his house; his generosity shall endure forever.

[Secreta]
We offer sacrifice unto You, O Lord, on the feast of blessed Augustine, Your Bishop and Confessor, humbly beseeching You that the sheep who are perishing may return to the one fold and be fed with this food of salvation.
$Per Dominum

[Postcommunio]
Strengthened by the sacrifice of salvation, we humbly pray You, O Lord, that through the prayerful intercession of blessed Augustine, it may continuously be offered everywhere unto Your name.
$Per Dominum
