[Officium]
Commemoration of St. Paul the Apostle

[Oratio Pauli]
O God, Who taught vast numbers of the Gentiles by the preaching of the blessed Apostle Paul, grant we beseech You that, by honoring his memory, we may enjoy the benefit of his patronal intercession.
$Per Dominum.

[Lectio]
Lesson from the letter of St. Paul the Apostle to the Galatians
!Gal 1:11-20
Brethren: I give you to understand, that the gospel which was preached by me is not of man. For I did not receive it from man, nor was I taught it; but I received it by a revelation of Jesus Christ. For you have heard of my former manner of life in Judaism; how beyond all measure I persecuted the Church of God, and ravaged it. And I advanced in Judaism above many of my contemporaries in my nation, showing much more zeal for the traditions of my fathers. But when it pleased Him Who from my mother’s womb set me apart and called me by His grace, to reveal His Son in me, that I might preach Him among the Gentiles, immediately, without taking counsel with flesh and blood, and without going up to Jerusalem to those who were appointed Apostles before me, I retired into Arabia, and again returned to Damascus. Then after three years I went to Jerusalem to see Peter, and I remained with him fifteen days. But I saw none of the other Apostles, except James, the brother of the Lord. Now in what I am writing to you, behold, before God, I do not lie.

[Graduale]
!Gal 2:8-9
He Who worked in Peter for the apostleship, worked also in me among the Gentiles; and they recognized the grace of God, that was given to me.
!1 Cor. 15:10
V. The grace of God in me has not been fruitless; but His grace always remains in me. Alleluia, alleluia.
V. Holy Apostle Paul, preacher of truth, and teacher of the Gentiles, intercede for us. Alleluia.

[Evangelium]
Continuation + of the Holy Gospel according to Matthew
!Matt 10:16-22
At that time, Jesus said to His disciples, Behold, I am sending you forth like sheep in the midst of wolves. Be therefore wise as serpents, and guileless as doves. But beware of men; for they will deliver you up to councils, and scourge you in their synagogues, and you will be brought before governors and kings for My sake, for a witness to them and to the Gentiles. But when they deliver you up, do not be anxious how or what you are to speak; for what you are to speak will be given you in that hour. For it is not you who are speaking, but the Spirit of your Father Who speaks through you. And brother will hand over brother to death, and the father of his child; children will rise up against parents and put them to death. And you will be hated by all for My name’s sake; but he who has persevered to the end will be saved.

[Postcommunio Pauli]
Having received Your sacrament, O Lord, we implore You, that what we have celebrated in honor of St. Paul, Your Apostle, may by his intercession benefit us as a healing remedy.
$Per Dominum.
