[Rank]
S. Joannis Gualberti Abbatis;;Duplex;;3;;vide C5

[Rule]
vide C5;
Gloria

[Introitus]
!Ps 36:30-31
v. The mouth of the just man tells of wisdom, and his tongue utters what is right.  The law of his God is in his heart. 
Ps 36:1 
Be not vexed over evildoers, nor jealous of those who do wrong. 
&Gloria
v. The mouth of the just man tells of wisdom, and his tongue utters what is right.  The law of his God is in his heart. 

[Oratio]
May the intercession of the blessed Abbot John commend us to You, O Lord, so that through his merits we may obtain that which we cannot accomplish by our own. 
$Per Dominum

[Lectio]
Lesson from the book of Ecclesiasticus
!Ecclus 45:1-6
Beloved of God and men, whose memory is held in benediction.  He made him like the Saints in glory, and magnified him in the fear of his enemies, and with his words He made prodigies to cease.  He glorified him in the sight of kings, and gave him Commandments in the sight of his people, and revealed to him His glory. He sanctified him in his faith and meekness and chose him out of all flesh. For He heard him and his voice, and brought him into a cloud. And, face to face, He gave him the Commandments, the law of life and understanding.

[Graduale]
!Ps 20:4-5
O Lord, You welcomed him with goodly blessings, You placed on his head a crown of pure gold. 
V. He asked life of You: You gave him length of days forever and ever. Alleluia, alleluia. 
!Ps 91:13
V. The just man shall flourish like the palm tree, like a cedar of Lebanon shall he grow. Alleluia.

[Evangelium]
Continuation + of the Holy Gospel according to Matthew
!Matt 5:43-48
At that time, Jesus said to His disciples, You have heard that it was said, ‘You shall love your neighbor, and shall hate your enemy.’ But I say to you, love your enemies, do good to those who hate you, and pray for those who persecute and calumniate you, so that you may be children of your Father in heaven, Who makes His sun to rise on the good and the evil, and sends rain on the just and the unjust. For if you love those that love you, what reward shall you have? Do not even the publicans do that? And if you salute your brethren only, what are you doing more than others? Do not even the Gentiles do that? You therefore are to be perfect, even as your heavenly Father is perfect.

[Offertorium]
!Ps 20:3-4
You have granted him his heart’s desire, O Lord; You refused not the wish of his lips. You placed on his head a crown of pure gold.

[Secreta]
We beseech You, O Lord, may the holy Abbot John prevail by his prayers, so that the offerings placed upon Your sacred altar may be  beneficial for our salvation. 
$Per Dominum

[Communio]
!Luke 12:42
Blessed is that servant whom his master, when he comes, shall find watching. Amen I say to you, he will set him over all his goods.

[Postcommunio]
May the pleading of the blessed Abbot John for us, together with the partaking of Your sacrament, protect us, O Lord, so that we, mindful of his way of life, may obtain the help of his intercession.  
$Per Dominum

[Commemoratio Oratio]
!Ss Naboris et Felicis
Grant we beseech You, O Lord, that as we never fail to celebrate the anniversary of the death of Your holy Martyrs, Nabor and Felix, so may we always be accompanied by their prayers.  
$Per Dominum

[Commemoratio Secreta]
!Ss Naboris et Felicis
May the gifts of Your people, we beseech You, O Lord, by the prayers of Your holy Martyrs, Nabor and Felix, be made pleasing to You, and may they be made worthy by the merits of those in honor of whose victories they are offered to Your name.
$Per Dominum.

[Commemoratio Postcommunio]
!Ss Naboris et Felicis
On the anniversary of the death of Your Saints, we beseech You, O Lord, that, being strengthened by the gift of the sacrament, we may enjoy forever the good things with which, through Your grace, we are now comforted. 
$Per Dominum
