[Rank]
S. Annae Matris B.M.V.;;Duplex II classis;;5.1;;ex C7a

[Rank1960]
S. Annae Matris B.M.V.;;Duplex II classis;;5;;ex C7a

[RankNewcal]
S. Annae et Joachim Parentes B.M.V.;;Duplex;;3;;ex C7a

[Rule]
vide C7a;
Gloria

[Introitus]
!  
v. Let us all rejoice in the Lord, celebrating a festival in honor of blessed Anne, on whose solemnity the angels rejoice, and give praise to the Son of God. 
!Ps 44:2
My heart overflows with a goodly theme; as I sing my ode to the King. 
&Gloria
v. Let us all rejoice in the Lord, celebrating a festival in honor of blessed Anne, on whose solemnity the angels rejoice, and give praise to the Son of God. 

[Oratio]
O God, Who in Your kindness gave blessed Anne the grace to be the mother of her who mothered Your only-begotten Son, graciously grant that we who keep her feast may be helped by her intercession with You. 
$Per eundem

[Lectio]
Lesson from the book of Proverbs
!Prov 31:10-31
When one finds a worthy wife, her value is far beyond pearls. Her husband, entrusting his heart to her, has an unfailing prize. She brings him good, and not evil, all the days of her life. She obtains wool and flax and makes cloth with skillful hands. Like merchant ships, she secures her provisions from afar. She rises while it is still night, and distributes food to her household. She picks out a field to purchase; out of her earnings she plants a vineyard. She is girt about with strength, and sturdy are her arms. She enjoys the success of her dealings; at night her lamp is undimmed. She puts her hands to the distaff, and her fingers ply the spindle. She reaches out her hands to the poor, and extends her arms to the needy. She fears not the snow for her household; all her charges are doubly clothed. She makes her own coverlets; fine linen and purple are her clothing. Her husband is prominent at the city gates as he sits with the elders of the land. She makes garments and sells them, and stocks the merchants with belts. She is clothed with strength and dignity, and she laughs at the days to come. She opens her mouth in wisdom, and on her tongue is kindly counsel. She watches the conduct of her household, and eats not her food in idleness. Her children rise up and praise her; her husband, too, extols her: Many are the women of proven worth, but you have excelled them all. Charm is deceptive and beauty fleeting; the woman who fears the Lord is to be praised. Give her a reward of her labors, and let her works praise her at the city gates.

[Graduale]
!Ps 44:8
You love justice and hate wickedness. 
V. Therefore God, your God, has anointed you with the oil of gladness. Alleluia, alleluia.  
!Ps 44:3
V. Grace is poured out upon your lips; thus God has blessed you forever. Alleluia.

[Evangelium]
Continuation + of the Holy Gospel according to Matthew
!Matt 13:44-52
At that time, Jesus spoke this parable to His disciples: The kingdom of heaven is like a treasure hidden in a field; he who finds it hides it, and in his joy goes and sells all that he has and buys that field. Again, the kingdom of heaven is like a merchant in search of fine pearls. When he finds a single pearl of great price, he goes and sells all that he has and buys it. Again, the kingdom of heaven is like a net cast into the sea that gathered in fish of every kind.  When it was filled, they hauled it out, and sitting down on the beach, they gathered the good fish into vessels, but threw away the bad. So will it be at the end of the world. The angels will go out and separate the wicked from among the just, and will cast them into the furnace of fire, where there will be the weeping, and the gnashing of teeth. Have you understood all these things?  They said to Him, Yes. And He said to them, So then, every Scribe instructed in the kingdom of heaven is like a householder who brings forth from his storeroom things new and old.

[Offertorium]
!Ps 44:3
The daughters of kings come to meet You, the queen takes her place at Your right hand in gilded clothing, surrounded with variety.

[Secreta]
Look with favor, O Lord, upon the offerings here before You, that, through the intercession of blessed Anne who bore the Mother of Your Son, our Lord Jesus Christ, they may help toward our holiness and our salvation. 
$Per eundem

[Communio]
!Ps 44:3
Grace is poured out upon your lips; thus God has blessed you forever, and for ages of ages.

[Postcommunio]
Strengthened by the heavenly sacrament, we beseech You, O Lord our God, that, by the intercession of blessed Anne, whom You willed to be the mother of Your Son’s Mother, we may be found worthy of reaching eternal salvation.
$Per eundem
