[Rank]
In Assumptione Beatae Mariae Virginis;;Duplex I classis;;6.5;;ex C11

[Rule]
Gloria
Credo
Prefatio=Maria=Assumptione;

[Introitus]
!Sedulius
v. Let all rejoice in the Lord, celebrating a festival day in honor of the Blessed Virgin Mary, for whose Assumption the Angels rejoice and give praise to the Son of God.
!Ps 44:2
My heart hath uttered a good word: I speak my works to the King.
&Gloria
v. Let all rejoice in the Lord, celebrating a festival day in honor of the Blessed Virgin Mary, for whose Assumption the Angels rejoice and give praise to the Son of God.

[Oratio]
O God who dost manifest Thine power almighty most chiefly in sparing and showing mercy: multiply upon us Thy mercy: that as we hasten towards Thy promises, Thou mayest make us partakers of the heavenly treasures.
$Qui tecum

[Lectio]
Lesson from the book of Wisdom
!Eccles. 24:11-13, 15-20
In all things, I sought rest and I shall abide in the inheritance of the Lord. Then the Creator of all things commanded, and said to me; and He that made me rested in my tabernacle. And He said to me: Let thy dwelling be in Jacob and thine inheritance in Israel, and take root in my elect. And so was I established in Sion, and in the holy city likewise I rested, and my power was in Jerusalem: and I took root in an honorable people, and in the portion of my God His inheritance, and my abode is in the full assembly of Saints. I was exalted like a cedar in Libanus, and as a cypress tree on Mount Sion: I was exalted like a palm tree in Cades, and as a rose plant in Jericho, as a fair olive tree by the water in the streets, was I exalted. I gave a sweet smell like cinnamon and aromatic balm: I yielded a sweet odor like the best myrrh. 

[Graduale]
!Ps 44:5, 11-12.
Because of truth, and meekness, and justice, and thy right hand shall conduct thee wonderfully. 
V. Hearken, O daughter, and see and incline thy ear: for the King hath greatly desired thy beauty.
Alleluia, alleluia. 
V. Mary is taken up into Heaven: the host of angels rejoice. Alleluia.

[Evangelium]
Continuation + of the Holy Gospel according to Luke
!Luke 10:38-42
At that time, Jesus entered into a certain town; and a certain woman named Martha, received Him into her house: and she had a sister called Mary, who sitting also at the Lord's feet, heard His word. But Martha was busy about much serving: who stood and said, Lord, hast Thou no care that my sister hath left me alone to serve? Speak to her therefore, that she help me. And the Lord answering, said to her: "Martha, Martha, thou art careful, and art troubled about many things: but one thing is necessary. Mary hath chosen the best part, which shall not be taken away from her." 

[Offertorium]
Mary is taken up into heaven: the Angels rejoice: and blessing God, with one voice offer high praise to Him, alleluia.

[Secreta]
May the prayer of the Mother of God aid Thy people, O Lord: and although we know her to have passed out of this life, fulfilling the lot of the flesh, may we experience her intercession for us with Thee in Heavenly glory.
$Per Dominum

[Communio]
!Luke 10:42
Mary hath chosen for herself the better part: which shall not be taken from her forever.

[Postcommunio]
We who have been made partakers of Thy heavenly table, implore Thy mercy, O Lord our God, that as we celebrate the Assumption of the Mother of God, we may through her intercesion, be delivered from all evils that beset us.
$Per Dominum
