[Rank]
S. Stephani Hungariæ Regis Confessoris;;Semiduplex;;2.2;;vide C5

[Oratio]
We beseech You, almighty God, that Your Church be worthy to have as her glorious defender in heaven blessed Stephen, Your Confessor, whom she had as her champion while he reigned on earth.
$Per Dominum

[GradualeP]
Alleluia, alleluia.
!James 1:12
V. Blessed is the man who endures temptation; for when he has been tried, he shall receive the crown of life. Alleluia.
!Ecclus. 45:9
V. The Lord loved him and adorned him; He clothed him with a robe of glory. Alleluia.

[Tractus]
!Ps 111:1-3
Happy the man who fears the Lord, who greatly delights in His commands.
V. His posterity shall be mighty upon the earth; the upright generation shall be blessed.
V. Wealth and riches shall be in his house; his generosity shall endure forever.

[Evangelium]
Continuation + of the Holy Gospel according to Luke
!Luke 19:12-26
At that time, Jesus spoke this parable to His disciples: A certain nobleman went into a far country to obtain for himself a kingdom and then return. And having summoned ten of his servants, he gave them ten gold pieces and said to them, ‘Trade till I come.’ But his citizens hated him; and they sent a delegation after him to say, ‘We do not wish this man to be king over us.’ And it came to pass when he had returned, after receiving the kingdom, that he ordered the servants to whom he had given the money to be called to him in order that he might learn how much each one had made by trading. And the first came, saying, ‘Lord, your gold piece has earned ten gold pieces.’ And he said to him, ‘Well done, good servant; because you have been faithful in a very little, you shall have authority over ten towns.’ Then the second came, saying, ‘Lord, your gold piece has made five gold pieces.’ And he said to him, ‘Be you also over five towns.’ And another came, saying, ‘Lord, behold your gold piece, which I have kept laid up in a napkin; for I feared you, because you are a stern man. You take up what you did not lay down, and you reap what you did not sow.’ He said to him, ‘Out of your own mouth I judge you, you wicked servant. You knew that I am a stern man, taking up what I did not lay down and reaping what I did not sow. Why, then, did you not put my money in a bank, so that I on my return might have gotten it with interest?’ And he said to the bystanders, ‘Take away the gold piece from him, and give it to him who has the ten gold pieces.’ But they said to him, ‘Lord, he has ten gold pieces.’ I say to you that to everyone who has shall be given; but from him who does not have, even that which he has shall be taken away.

[Secreta]
Look with favor, almighty God, upon the offerings we bring to you, and grant that we, who celebrate the mysteries of our Lord’s passion, may strive to imitate what we commemorate.
$Per eundem

[Postcommunio]
Grant, we beseech You, almighty God, that we may follow in proper reverence the faith of blessed Stephen, Your Confessor, who as a reward for spreading that faith, was found worthy to pass from an earthly throne into the glory of Your heavenly Kingdom.
$Per Dominum
