[Rank]
Nativity of the Blessed Virgin Mary;;Duplex II classis cum Octava simplici;;5.1;;ex C11

[Rule]
ex C11;
Gloria
Credo
Prefatio=Maria=Nativitate

[Oratio]
Bestow upon Your servants, we beseech You, O Lord, the gift of heavenly grace, that, as the child-bearing of the Blessed Virgin stood for the beginning of our salvation, so may the solemn feast of her Nativity bring about an increase of peace.
$Per Dominum

[Lectio]
Lesson from the book of Proverbs
!Prov 8:22-35
The Lord begot me, the firstborn of His ways, the forerunner of His prodigies of long ago; from of old I was poured forth, at the first, before the earth. When there were not depths I was brought forth, when there were not fountains or springs of water; before the mountains were settled into place, before the hills, I was brought forth; while as yet the earth and the fields were not made, nor the first clods of the world. When He established the heavens I was there, when He marked out the vault over the face of the deep; when He made firm the skies above, and poised the fountains of waters; when He set for the sea its limit, so that the waters should not transgress His command; when He fixed fast the foundations of the earth, then was I beside Him as His craftsman, and I was His delight day by day, playing before Him all the while, playing on the surface of His earth and I found delight in the sons of men. So now, O children, listen to me; happy those who keep my ways. Hear instruction, and be wise, and refuse it not. Happy the man who obeys me, watching daily at my gates, waiting at my doorsteps; for he who finds me finds life, and wins favor from the Lord.

[Graduale]
Blessed and venerable are you, O Virgin Mary, who, without spot to your maidenhood, were made the Mother of the Saviour.
V. O Virgin, Mother of God, He Whom the whole world cannot contain, enclosed Himself in your womb, becoming Man. Alleluia, alleluia.
V. Happy are you, O Holy Virgin Mary, and most worthy of all high praise; for out of you has risen the sun of justice, Christ our God. Alleluia.

[Evangelium]
Continuation + of the Holy Gospel according to Matthew
!Matt 1:1-16
The book of the origins of Jesus Christ, the Son of David, the son of Abraham. Abraham begot Isaac, Isaac begot Jacob, Jacob begot Judas and his brethren. Judas begot Phares and Zara of Thamar, Phares begot Esron, Esron begot Aram. And Aram begot Aminadab, Aminadab begot Naasson, Naasson begot Salmon. Salmon begot Booz of Rahab. Booz begot Obed of Ruth, Obed begot Jesse, Jesse begot David the king. And David the king begot Solomon of the former wife of Urias. Solomon begot Roboam, Roboam begot Abia, Abia begot Asa. And Asa begot Josaphat, Josaphat begot Joram, Joram begot Ozias. And Ozias begot Joatham, Joatham begot Achaz, Achaz begot Ezechias. And Ezechias begot Manasses, Manasses begot Amon, Amon begot Josias. And Josias begot Jechonias and his brethren at the time of the carrying away to Babylon. And after the carrying away to Babylon Jechonias begot Salathiel, Salathiel begot Zorobabel. And Zorobabel begot Abiud, Abiud begot Eliachim, Eliachim begot Azor. And Azor begot Sadoc, Sadoc begot Achim, Achim, begot Eliud. And Eliud begot Eleazar, Eleazar begot Matthan, Matthan begot Jacob. And Jacob begot Joseph, the husband of Mary, and of her was born Jesus Who is called Christ.

[Secreta]
May the humanity of Your only-begotten Son help us, O Lord, as He, Who, born of a virgin did not lessen but consecrated the purity of His mother, so, on the festival of her Nativity may Jesus Christ, our Lord, free us from our sins and render our sacrifice acceptable to You.
$Qui vivis
