[Officium]
St. John Leonard, Confessor

[Introitus]
!Ecclus 42:15-16
v. At the Lord’s word were His works brought into being. As the rising sun is clear to all, so the glory of the Lord shines upon all His works.
!Ps 95:1
Sing to the Lord a new song; sing to the Lord, all you lands.
&Gloria
v. At the Lord’s word were His works brought into being. As the rising sun is clear to all, so the glory of the Lord shines upon all His works.

[Oratio]
O God, Who in a wondrous way graciously urged blessed John, Your Confessor, to propagate Your faith among the pagans, and through him brought together a new religious family in Your Church for the education of the faithful, grant Your servants so to profit by his teaching that we may reach everlasting rewards.
$Per Dominum

[Lectio]
Lesson from the second letter of St. Paul the Apostle to the Corinthians
!2 Cor 4:1-6; 4:15-18
Brethren: Discharging this ministry in accordance with the mercy shown us, we do not lose heart. On the contrary, we renounce those practices which shame conceals, we avoid unscrupulous conduct, we do not corrupt the word of God; but making known the truth, we commend ourselves to every man’s conscience in the sight of God. And if our Gospel also is veiled, it is veiled only to those who are perishing. In their case, the god of this world has blinded their unbelieving minds, that they should not see the light of the Gospel of the glory of Christ, Who is the image of God. For we preach not of ourselves, but Jesus Christ as Lord, and ourselves merely as your servants in Jesus. For God, Who commanded light to shine out of darkness, has shone in our hearts to give enlightenment concerning the knowledge of the glory of God, shining on the face of Christ Jesus. For all things are for your sakes, so that the grace which abounds through the many may cause thanksgiving to abound to the glory of God. Wherefore we do not lose heart. On the contrary, even though our outer man is decaying, yet our inner man is being renewed day by day. For our present light affliction, which is for the moment, prepares for us an eternal weight of glory that is beyond all measure; while we look not at the things that are seen, but at the things that are not seen. For the things that are seen are temporal, but the things that are not seen are eternal.

[Graduale]
!Ps 72:21; 68:10
My heart was embittered and my soul was pierced; zeal for Your house consumed me. 
!Isa 49:2
V. He made of me a sharp-edged sword and concealed me in the shadow of His arm. He made me a polished arrow. Alleluia, alleluia.
!Ps 70:7
V. A portent am I to many, but You are my strong refuge! Alleluia.

[Offertorium]
!Col 1:25
I have become a minister of Christ in virtue of the office that God has given me, for I am to preach the word of God fully.

[Secreta]
Accept, O Lord, the pure offering of this saving sacrifice, and by the intercession of blessed John, Your Confessor, grant that it may be offered up unceasingly throughout the world.
$Per Dominum

[Communio]
!Phil 3:7
The things that were gain to me, these, for the sake of Christ, I have counted loss.

[Postcommunio]
Refreshed by the holy sacrament of Your precious Body and Blood, we beseech You, O Lord, that, following the example of blessed John, Your Confessor, may we strive to profess what he believed and in our actions put into practice what he taught.
$Qui vivis
