[Rank]
S. Dionysii Episcopi Rustici et Eleuthery Martyrum;;Semiduplex;;2;;vide C3a

[Rule]
vide C3a;
Gloria

[Oratio]
O God, Who on this day strengthened blessed Dionysius, Your Martyr and Bishop,~
with the power to be steadfast in his suffering, and were pleased to join with~
him Rusticus and Eleutherius to preach Your glory to the pagans, grant us, we~
beseech You, out of love for You, to despise the favors of this world and to~
fear not its enmity.
$Per Dominum

[Lectio]
Lesson from the Acts of Apostles
!Acts 17:22-34
In those days, Paul stood up in the midst of the Areopagus, and said, Men of Athens, I see that in every respect you are extremely religious. For as I was going about and observing objects of your worship, I found also an altar with this inscription:‘To the Unknown God.’ What therefore you worship in ignorance, that I proclaim to you. God, Who made the world and all that is in it, since He is Lord of heaven and earth, does not dwell in temples built by hands; neither is He served by human hands as though He were in need of anything, since it is He Who gives to all men life and breath and all things. And from one man He has created the whole human race and made them live all over the face of the earth, determining their appointed times and the boundaries of their lands; that they should seek God, and perhaps grope after him and find Him, though he is not far from any one of us. For in Him we live and move and have our being, as indeed some of your own poets have said, ‘For we are also His offspring.’ If therefore we are the offspring of God, we ought not to imagine that the Divinity is like to gold or silver or stone, to an image graven by human art and thought. The times of this ignorance God has, it is true, overlooked, but now He calls upon all men everywhere to repent; inasmuch as He has fixed a day on which He will judge the world with justice by a Man Whom He has appointed, and Whom He has guaranteed to all by raising Him from the dead. Now when they heard of a resurrection of the dead, some began to sneer, but others said, We will hear thee again on this matter. So Paul went forth from among them. Certain persons however joined him and became believers; among them were Dionysius the Areopagite and a woman named Damaris, and others with them.

[Secreta]
Graciously accept, O Lord, the gifts of Your people in honor of Your Saints, and~
make us holy by their intercession.
$Per Dominum

[Postcommunio]
We who have received Your sacrament beseech You, Lord, that through the~
intercession of Your blessed Martyrs, Dionysius, Rusticus, and Eleutherius, we~
may profit unto an increase of eternal salvation.
$Per Dominum
