[Rank]
S. Raphaelis Archangeli;;Duplex majus;;4;;ex Sancti/05-08

[Rule]
ex Sancti/05-08
Gloria
Credo

[Introitus]
!Ps 102:20
v. Bless the Lord, all you His Angels, you mighty in strength, who do His bidding, obeying His spoken word. 
!Ps 102:1
Bless the Lord, O my soul; and, all my being, bless His holy name. 
&Gloria
v. Bless the Lord, all you His Angels, you mighty in strength, who do His bidding, obeying His spoken word. 

[Oratio]
O God, Who gave blessed Raphael the Archangel as a traveling companion to Your servant Tobias, grant us, Your servants, ever to be protected by his guardianship and by his help. 
$Per Dominum

[Lectio]
Lesson from the book of Tobias
!Tob 12:7-15
In those days, the Angel Raphael said to Tobias: It is good to hide the secret of a king: but honorable to reveal and confess the works of God. Prayer is good with fasting and alms, more than to lay up treasures of gold: for alms delivers from death, and the same is that which purges away sins, and makes to find mercy and life everlasting. But they who commit sin and iniquity are enemies to their own soul. I discover then the truth to you, and I will not hide the secret from you. When you prayed with tears, and buried the dead, and left your dinner, and hid the dead by day in your house, and buried them by night, I offered your prayer to the Lord. And because you were acceptable to God, it was necessary that temptation should prove you. And now the Lord has sent me to heal you, and to deliver Sara your son’s wife from the devil.  For I am the angel Raphael, one of the seven who stand before the Lord.

[Graduale]
!Tob 8:3
The Angel of the Lord, Raphael, took and bound the devil. 
!Ps 146:5
V. Great is our Lord and mighty in power. Alleluia, alleluia. 
!Ps 137:1-2
V. In the presence of the Angels I will sing Your praise; I will worship at Your holy temple and give thanks to Your name, O Lord. Alleluia.

[Tractus]
!Ps 148:2
Praise the Lord, all you His Angels, praise Him, all you His hosts.  
!Ps 102:21
V. Bless the Lord, all you His hosts, His ministers, who do His will.

[GradualeP]
Alleluia, alleluia. 
!Ps 102:1
V. Bless the Lord, O my soul; and, all my being, bless His holy name. Alleluia. 
!Tob 3:25; 5:11 
V. The holy Angel of the Lord, Raphael, was sent by God to Tobias, and he saluted him and said, Joy be to you always.  Alleluia.

[Evangelium]
Continuation + of the Holy Gospel according to John
!John 5:1-4
At that time, there was a feast of the Jews, and Jesus went up to Jerusalem. Now there is at Jerusalem, by the Sheepgate, a pool called in Hebrew Bethsaida, having five porticoes. In these were lying a great multitude of the sick, blind, lame, and those with shriveled limbs, waiting for the moving of the water. For an Angel of the Lord used to come down at certain times into the pool, and the water was troubled. And the first to go down into the pool after the troubling of the water was cured of whatever infirmity he had.

[Offertorium]
!Apoc 8:3-4
An Angel stood near the altar of the temple, having a golden censer in his hand, and there was given to him much incense; and the smoke of the perfumes ascended before God. Alleluia.

[Secreta]
We offer You sacrifices of praise, O Lord, humbly praying You to accept them graciously, and to grant that they may be helpful for our salvation through the intercession of the Angels who intercede for us.  
$Per Dominum

[Communio]
!Dan 3:58
All you Angels of the Lord, bless the Lord: sing a hymn, and exalt Him above all forever.

[Postcommunio]
O Lord, graciously send Your holy Archangel Raphael to help us, that he who we know stands ever in the presence of Your Majesty, may present our humble prayers for Your blessing.  
$Per Dominum
