[Rank]
In festo Domino nostro Jesu Christi Regis;;Duplex 1 class;;6.5;;

[Rule]
9 lectiones
Gloria
Credo
Prefatio=Regis

[Introitus]
!Apoc 5:12; 1:6
v. Worthy is the Lamb Who was slain to receive power, and divinity, and wisdom, and strength, and honor.  To Him belong glory and dominion forever and ever. 
!Ps 71:1
O God, with Your judgment endow the King and with Your justice, the King's son.
&Gloria
v. Worthy is the Lamb Who was slain to receive power, and divinity, and wisdom, and strength, and honor.  To Him belong glory and dominion forever and ever. 

[Oratio]
Almighty and eternal God, Who willed to restore all things in Your beloved Son, the King of the Universe, graciously grant that the peoples of the earth torn asunder by the wound of sin, may submit to His most gentle rule. 
$Qui tecum

[Lectio]
Lesson from the letter of St. Paul the Apostle to the Colossians
!Col 1:12-20.
Brethren: We give thanks to God the Father Who has made us worthy to share the lot of the saints in light. He has rescued us from the power of darkness, and transferred us into the kingdom of His beloved Son, in Whom we have our redemption through His blood, the remission of sins. He is the image of the invisible God, the firstborn of every creature. For in Him were created all things in the heavens and on the earth, things visible and things invisible, whether Thrones, or Dominations, or Principalities, or Powers. All things have been created through and unto Him, and He is before all creatures, and in Him all things hold together.  Again, He is the head of the body, the Church; He, Who is the beginning, the firstborn from the dead, that in all things He may have the first place. For it has pleased God the Father that in Him all fullness should dwell and that through Him He should reconcile to Himself all things, whether on the earth or in the heavens, making peace through the blood of His Cross, in Christ Jesus our Lord.

[Graduale]
!Ps 71:8, 11
He shall rule from sea to sea, and from the River to the ends of the earth. 
V. All kings shall pay Him homage, all nations shall serve Him. Alleluia, alleluia. 
!Dan. 7:14 
V. His dominion is an everlasting dominion that shall not be taken away: and His kingdom shall not be destroyed. Alleluia.

[Tractus]
!Ps 88:27 28, 30
He shall say to Me, You are My Father, My God, My Rock, My Saviour. 
V. And I will make Him the firstborn, highest of the kings of the earth. 
V. I will make His posterity endure forever and His throne as the days of heaven.

[GradualeP]
Alleluia, alleluia. 
!Dan. 7:14 
V. His dominion is an everlasting dominion that shall not be taken away: and His kingdom shall not be destroyed. Alleluia. 
!Rev 19:16
He has on His garment and on His thigh a name written, King of kings, and Lord of Lords. Alleluia.

[Evangelium]
Continuation + of the Holy Gospel according to John
!John 18:33-37
 At that time, Pilate said to Jesus, Are You the King of the Jews? Jesus answered, Do you say this of yourself, or have others told you of Me? Pilate answered, Am I a Jew? Your own people and the chief priests have delivered You to me. What have You done? Jesus answered, My kingdom is not of this world.  If My kingdom were of this world, My followers would certainly have fought that I might not be delivered to the Hebrews. But, as it is, My kingdom is not from here. Pilate therefore said to Him, You are then a King? Jesus answered, You say it: I am a King. This is why I was born, and why I have come into the world, to bear witness to the truth. Everyone who is of the truth hears My voice.

[Offertorium]
!Ps 2:8
Ask of Me and I will give You the nations for an inheritance and the ends of the earth for Your possession.

[Secreta]
O Lord, we offer You this sacrificial Victim of mankind's reconciliation with You; grant, we beseech You, that our Lord Jesus Christ, your Son, Whom we offer in this sacrifice, may bestow upon all peoples the gifts of unity and peace.
!Qui tecum

[Communio]
!Ps 28:10-11
The Lord is enthroned as King forever; may the Lord bless His people with peace!

[Postcommunio]
We have received the food of eternal life, and we beseech You, O Lord, that we who are proud to serve under the flag of Christ the King may forever reign with Him in the Kingdom of heaven.
$Qui tecum

