[Officium]
St. Francis Xavier, Confessor

[Name]
Francis

[Introitus]
!Ps 118:46-47
v. I will speak of Your decrees before kings without being ashamed. And I will delight in Your commands, which I love exceedingly.
!Ps 116:1-2
Praise the Lord, all you nations; glorify Him, all you peoples! For steadfast is His kindness toward us, and the fidelity of the Lord endures forever.
&Gloria
v. I will speak of Your decrees before kings without being ashamed. And I will delight in Your commands, which I love exceedingly.

[Oratio]
O God, You Who were pleased to gather into Your Church the peoples of the Indies by the preaching and miracles of blessed Francis, mercifully grant that we, who honor his glorious merits, may also imitate the example of his virtues.
$Per Dominum

[Lectio]
Lesson from the letter of St. Paul the Apostle to the Romans
!Rom 10:10-18
Brethren: With the heart a man believes unto justice, and with the mouth profession of faith is made unto salvation. For the Scripture says, Whoever believes in Him shall not be disappointed. For there is no distinction between Jew and Greek, for there is the same Lord of all, rich toward all who call upon Him. For whoever calls upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. How then are they to call upon him in Whom they have not believed? But how are they to believe Him Whom they have not heard? And how are they to hear, if no one preaches? And how are men to preach unless they be sent? As it is written, How beautiful are the feet of those who preach the Gospel of peace; of those who bring glad tidings of good things! But all did not obey the Gospel. For Isaiah says, Lord, who has believed our report? Faith, then, depends on hearing, and hearing on the word of Christ. But I say: Have they not heard? Yes, indeed, Their voice has gone forth into all the earth, and their words unto the ends of the world.

[Evangelium]
Continuation + of the Holy Gospel according to Mark
!Mark 16:15-18
At that time, Jesus said to His disciples, Go into the whole world and preach the gospel to every creature. He who believes and is baptized shall be saved, but he who does not believe shall be condemned. And these signs shall attend those who believe: in My name they shall cast out devils; they shall speak in new tongues; they shall take up serpents; and if they drink any deadly thing, it shall not hurt them; they shall lay hands upon the sick and they shall get well.
