[Officium]
St. Thomas of Canterbury, Bishop and Martyr

[Name]
Thomas

[Introitus]
!   
v. Let us all rejoice in the Lord, celebrating a festival day in honor of blessed Thomas the Martyr: at whose martyrdom the angels rejoice, and praise the Son of God.
!Ps 32:1
Exult, you just, in the Lord; praise from the upright is fitting.
&Gloria
v. Let us all rejoice in the Lord, celebrating a festival day in honor of blessed Thomas the Martyr: at whose martyrdom the angels rejoice, and praise the Son of God.

[Oratio]
O God, for whose Church Bishop Thomas, now in glory, fell by the swords of wicked men, grant, we beseech You, that the prayers of all who implore his assistance may be effective and may lead to salvation.
$Per Dominum

[Lectio]
Lesson from the letter of St. Paul the Apostle to the Hebrews
!Heb 5:1-6.
Brethren: For every high priest taken from among men is appointed for me in the things pertaining to God, that he may offer gifts and sacrifices for sins. He is able to have compassion on the ignorant and erring, because he himself also is beset with weakness, and by reason thereof is obliged to offer for sins, as on behalf of the people, so also for himself. And no man takes the honor to himself; he takes it who is called by God, as Aaron was. So also Christ did not glorify Himself with the high priesthood, but He Who spoke to Him, Thou art My Son, I this day have begotten Thee. As He says also in another place, Thou art a priest forever, according to the order of Melchisedec.

[Graduale]
!Ecclus 44:16, 20
Behold a great priest, who in his days pleased God.
V. There was not found the like to him, who kept the law of the Most High. Alleluia, alleluia.
!John 10:14
V. I am the Good Shepherd: and I know My sheep, and Mine know Me. Alleluia.

[Evangelium]
Continuation + of the Holy Gospel according to John
!John 10:11-16.
At that time, Jesus said to the Pharisees: I am the Good Shepherd. The good shepherd lays down his life for his sheep. But the hireling, who is not a shepherd, whose own the sheep are not, sees the wolf coming and leaves the sheep and flees. And the wolf snatches and scatters the sheep; but the hireling flees because he is a hireling, and has no concern for the sheep. I am the Good Shepherd, and I know Mine and Mine know Me, even as the Father knows Me and I know the Father; and I lay down My life for My sheep. And other sheep I have that are not of this fold. Them also I must bring, and they shall hear My voice, and there shall be one fold and one Shepherd.

[Offertorium]
!Ps 20:4-5.
You placed on his head, O Lord, a crown of pure gold. He asked life of You and You gave it to him. Alleluia.

[Communio]
!John 10:14
I am the Good Shepherd: and I know My sheep, and Mine know Me.
