[Rank]
Dominica III Post Pentecosten, infra Octavam SSmi Cordis D.N.J.C;;Semiduplex;;5;;ex Tempora/Pent02-5

[Rule]
ex Tempora/Pent02-5;
9 lectiones
Psalmi Dominica
Antiphonas horas
Symbolum Athanasium
Doxology=Heart

[Capitulum Vespera]
!1 Peter 5:6-7
v. Dearly beloved, humble yourselves therefore under the mighty hand of God, that he may exalt you in due time: casting all your care upon him; for he careth for you.
$Deo gratias

[Ant 1]
And they all knew, * from Dan even unto Beersheba, that Samuel was established to be a Prophet of the Lord.

[Versum 1]
V.  The merciful Lord hath instituted a memorial of his wondrous deeds.
R.  He hath given Meat unto them that fear him.

[Oratio]
O God, the Protector of all them that trust in thee, without Whom nothing is strong, nothing is Holy increase and multiply upon us thy mercy, that Thou being our ruler and guide, we may so pass through things temporal, that we finally lose not the things eternal.
$Per Dominum

[Lectio1]
Lesson from the first book of Samuel
!1 Sam 9:18-21
18 And Saul came to Samuel in the midst of the gate and said: Tell me, I pray thee, where is the house of the seer?
19 And Samuel answered Saul, saying: I am the seer, go up before me to the high place, that you may eat with me today, and I will let thee go in the morning: and tell thee all that is in thy heart.
20 And as for the asses, which were lost three days ago, be not solicitous, because they are found. And for whom shall be all the best things of Israel? Shall they not be for thee and for all thy father's house?
21 And Saul answering, said: Am not I a son of Jemini of the least tribe of Israel, and my kindred the last among all the families of the tribe of Benjamin? Why then hast thou spoken this word to me?

[Responsory1]
R.  I will make an everlasting Covenant with them, and I will not cease from doing them good, and I will put my fear in their hearts, 
* So that they shall not depart from me.
V.  Yea, I will rejoice over them, to do them good with my whole Heart.
R.  So that they shall not depart from me.

[Lectio2]
!1 Sam 9:22-25
22 Then Samuel taking Saul and his servant, brought them into the parlour, and gave them a place at the head of them that were invited. For there were about thirty men.
23 And Samuel said to the cook: Bring the portion, which I gave thee, and commanded thee to set it apart by thee.
24 And the cook took up the shoulder, and set it before Saul. And Samuel said: Behold what is left, set it before thee, and eat: because it was kept of purpose for thee, when I invited the people. And Saul ate with Samuel that day.
25 And they went down from the high place into the town, and he spoke with Saul upon the top of the house: and he prepared a bed for Saul on the top of the house, and he slept.

[Responsory2]
R.  It was not an open enemy that done me this dishonour, for then I could have borne it,  
* But it was even thou, mine own familiar friend, who did also eat of my Bread.
V.  Neither was it mine adversary that did magnify himself against me, for then peradventure I would have hid myself from him.
R.  But it was even thou, mine own familiar friend, who did also eat of my Bread.

[Lectio3]
!1 Sam 9:26-27;10:1
26 And when they were risen in the morning, and it began now to be light, Samuel called Saul on the top of the house, saying: Arise, that I may let thee go. And Saul arose: and they went out both of them, to wit, he and Samuel.
27 And as they were going down in the end of the city, Samuel said to Saul: Speak to the servant to go before us, and pass on: but stand thou still a while, that I may tell thee the word of the Lord.
1 And Samuel took a little vial of oil and poured it upon his head, and kissed him, and said: Behold, the Lord hath anointed thee to be prince over his inheritance, and thou shalt deliver his people out of the hands of their enemies, that are round about them. And this shall be a sign unto thee, that God hath anointed thee to be prince.

[Responsory3]
R.  And we, being dead in our sins, hath God quickened together with Christ,  
* For his great love wherewith he hath loved us.
V.  That in the ages to come he might shew the exceeding riches of his grace.
R.  For his great love wherewith he hath loved us.
&Gloria
R.  For his great love wherewith he hath loved us.

[Lectio4]
!From the Encyclical Letter of Pope Pius XI
Among the various devotions paid to the Sacred Heart, the one foremost in importance and interest is assuredly the Act of Consecration, whereby we give to the divine Heart of Jesus both ourselves and all that is ours ; in recognition of the truth that all we have cometh unto us out of the infinite charity of the eternal Deity. But it is expedient that any attempt of ours at self-consecration be accompanied with the purpose of making expiation (otherwise called reparation) to the most Sacred Heart of Jesus. In consecration the predominant intention may be said to be the purpose to repay (as it were) the love of the Creator by the love of us his creatures. But since Love Uncreate is passed over by human forgetfulness, and dishonoured by the sins of mankind, we should endeavour to repair such outrages ; and the performance of this duty is ordinarily known as reparation.

[Responsory4]
R. The Lord is nigh unto all them that call upon him,
* Yea, unto all such as call upon him faithfully.
V. The Lord is full of compassion and mercy, long-suffering and of great goodness.
R. Yea, unto all such as call upon him faithfully.

[Lectio5]
If we are, for the aforesaid reasons, to undertake both of those practices, we must recognize that we are impelled to the duty of reparation by the most powerful motives of justice and love : of justice, in order to expiate the injury done to God by our sins, and to re-establish through penance the divine order which was violated by them ; of love, in order to suffer together with Christ, (who patiently endured all possible dishonour,) so that we may offer him some solace in return for his sufferings. For it is our duty to do more than honour God by the worship of adoration, whereby we adore his infinite Majesty, or by means of prayer, when we recognize his supreme dominion over us, or by acts of thanksgiving, when we praise his infinite generosity towards us. Because we are sinners, burdened with many offences, we must also make satisfaction to the offended justice of God, because of the numberless sins, offences and negligences we have committed. Wherefore, we must add to the act of consecration, by which we offer ourselves to God, and become thereby, as it were, sacred unto God by reason of the holiness which naturally floweth from an act of consecration, as the Angelic Doctor teacheth. We must add the act of reparation, by means of which all our faults are blotted out, lest perchance the sanctity of Infinite Justice spurn our arrogant unworthiness, and look upon the gift of ourselves as something to be rejected rather than accepted.

[Responsory5]
R. I thank thee, O Father, Lord of heaven and earth, because thou hast hid these things from the wise and prudent ;
* Yea, thou hast revealed them unto babes.
V. Even so, Father, for so it seemed good in thy sight.
R. Yea, thou hast revealed them unto babes.

[Lectio6]
All men are under obligation to make reparation ; for our souls are disfigured as the Christian faith teacheth by original sin as a result of the pitiable fall of Adam. We are also subject to passions, whereby we are corrupted in a truly sad state, and have thus made ourselves worthy of everlasting condemnation. It is true that the proud philosophers of this world deny the aforesaid verities, and in their place do raise up again the ancient heresy of Pelagius : which taught that in human nature there is a certain innate goodness wherewith, by our own powers, we are raised up to ever higher levels of perfection ; but such false theories, born of human pride, have been condemned by the Apostle in his saying that all men are by nature the children of wrath. As a matter of fact, from the very beginning of the creation of the world, mankind recognized, in one way or another, the obligation of making reparation, impelled thereto, as by a natural instinct, in an endeavour to placate God by offering public sacrifices unto him.

[Responsory6]
R. All nations whom thou hast made shall come
* And they shall worship thee, O Lord.
V. Yea, they shall glorify thy Name, for thou art great, and doest wondrous things.
R. And they shall worship thee, O Lord.
&Gloria
R. And they shall worship thee, O Lord.

[Lectio7]
From the Holy Gospel according to Luke
!Luke 15:1-5
At that time: the publicans and sinners drew near unto him to hear him. And so on.
_
Homily by Pope St Gregory (the Great.)
!34th on the Gospels.
Ye have heard, my brethren, from the Gospel which hath but now been read, how that the publicans and sinners drew near unto our Redeemer, and how that He received them, not only to converse, but also to eat with Him. And when the Pharisees and Scribes saw it, they murmured. From this learn ye, that true righteousness is merciful, and false righteousness is contemptuous, albeit that the righteous also oft-times feel moved with just indignation at sinners. But it is one thing to feel thus indignant through pride, and another to feel so through love of law.

[Responsory7]
R.  If I be lifted up, 
*  I will draw all men unto me.
V.  This he said, signifying what death he should die.
R.  I will draw all men unto me.

[Lectio8]
The righteous indeed look down upon sinners, and yet, as not despising them; they abandon them, and yet, as not without hope; they fight against them, and yet, as loving them all the while; for if they be behoven to chasten them grievously as touching the outer man, yet is it through charity which offereth sweetness to their inner man. In their hearts they prefer before themselves them whom they are correcting; they hold as better than themselves them whom they judge. And thus doing, they watch by carefulness over them, which are committed unto their charge, and, by lowly-mindedness, over themselves.

[Responsory8]
R.  Be ye therefore followers of God ; 
*  And walk ye therefore in love.
V.  For Christ also hath loved us and hath given himself for us.
R.  And walk ye therefore in love.
&Gloria
R.  And walk ye therefore in love.

[Lectio9]
On the other hand, they whose exaltation cometh of a false righteousness, look down upon their neighbour, but are softened by no mercy toward his misery, and are all the more sinful, because they perceive not that they themselves are sinners. Of such were those Pharisees who judged the Lord because He received sinners, and, in the dryness of their own heart, rebuked the very Fountain of mercy. They were sick of so desperate a sickness that they knew not of themselves that they were sick; but, that they might know that they were so, the Heavenly Physician applied to them His tender ointments, and, by means of a gracious parable, lanced the boil of their pride of heart.
&teDeum

[Capitulum Laudes]
!1 Peter 5:6-7
v. Dearly beloved, humble yourselves therefore under the mighty hand of God, that he may exalt you in due time: casting all your care upon him; for he careth for you.
$Deo gratias

[Ant 2]
What man of you * that hath an hundred sheep, and if he shall lose one of them, doth he not leave the ninety-nine in the desert and go after that which was lost, until he find it? alleluia.

[Versum 2]
V. The Lord reigneth He is clothed with majesty.
R. The Lord is clothed with strength, and hath girded Himself with power.

[Capitulum Tertia]
!1 Peter 5:6-7
v. Dearly beloved, humble yourselves therefore under the mighty hand of God, that he may exalt you in due time: casting all your care upon him; for he careth for you.
$Deo gratias

[Capitulum Sexta]
!1 Peter 5:6-7
v. Dearly beloved, humble yourselves therefore under the mighty hand of God, that he may exalt you in due time: casting all your care upon him; for he careth for you.
$Deo gratias

[Capitulum Nona]
!1 Peter 5:8-9
v. Be sober, be vigilant; because your adversary the devil goeth about as a roaring lion, seeking whom he may devour; whom resist stedfast in the Faith, knowing that the same afflictions are accomplished in your brethren that are in the world.
$Deo gratias

[Ant 3]
What woman * having ten pieces of silver, if she lose one piece, doth not light a candle, and sweep the house, and seek diligently till she find it

[Versum 3]
V. Let my prayer, O Lord, be set forth.
R. As incense before thee.

[Commemoratio]
!For the most Holy Heart of Jesus
@Tempora/Pent02-5:Oratio
