On the 25th day of June, were born into the better life
_
In the country of Golet, near Nusco, the holy Confessor William, father of the hermits of Monte Vergine. 
At Bercea, holy Sosipater, disciple of the blessed Apostle Paul. 
At Rome, the holy Virgin and martyr Lucy, with twenty-two others. 
At Alexandria, the holy martyr Gallican. This was a man of Consular rank, who had received the honour of a triumph and was a personal friend of the Emperor Constantine. He was converted to the faith of Christ by holy John and Paul. After his conversion he withdrew to Ostia with holy Hilarinus, when he gave himself entirely to the service of strangers and the sick. This got noised abroad in all the world so that people came from all parts to see a man who had been a patrician and a consul washing the feet of the poor, laying the table, pouring water on the guests' hands, ministering carefully to the sick, and performing other offices of mercy. He was turned out of Ostia under the Emperor Julian the Apostate, and went to Alexandria. There the judge Raucian would needs have him sacrifice, and forasmuch as he would not, caused him to be beheaded, and so he became Christ's martyr. 
At Sibapolis, in Syria, the holy Virgin and martyr Febronia on account of her steadfastness in faith and chastity during the persecution under Diocletian, the judge Lysimachus ordered her to be first beaten with rods and tormented upon the rack, then torn with combs and burnt with fire afterwards her teeth were hammered out and her breasts cut off, and then she was beheaded, and so passed away to her Divine Bridegroom prepared with all these sufferings as a bride adorned for her husband. 
At Besancon, in Gaul, the holy martyr Antidius, Bishop of Besancon, who for Christ's faith's sake was slain by the Vandals. 
At Reggio, holy Prosper of Aquitaine, Bishop of that city, famous for his learning and godliness, who stoutly contended for the Catholic faith against the Pelagians. 
At Turin, the holy Confessor Maximus, Bishop of Turin, very famous for his teaching and holiness. 
In Holland, the holy Confessor Adelbert, the disciple of holy Willibrord, Archbishop [of Utrecht.] 
