On the morrow we keep the solemn feast of Our Most Holy Redeemer, whose venerable image was taken by barbarians and carried off into Africa, where it was treated with mocking and insults, and then was cast away into a lion's den. It was bought back for money by the bare-footed Friars of the Order of the Most Holy Trinity, and brought to Spain, where it is distinguished everywhere for signs and wonders, and is worshipped and honoured with great earnestness by the people under the Most Holy Name of Jesus of Nazareth. 
Upon the same 23rd day of October, were born into the better life  
_
At Ossuna, near Cadiz, in Spain, the holy martyrs Servandus and Germanus. Under the Imperial Vicar Viator, in the persecution under the Emperor Diocletian, they suffered stripes, a foul imprisonment, hunger and thirst, and a long and toilsome journey, which they were forced to make loaded with irons, and in the end finished the course of their martyrdom by being beheaded. Germanus is buried at Merida and Servandus at Seville. 
At Antioch, in Syria, the holy Priest Theodore. In the persecution under the Emperor Julian, the impious apostate, he was arrested and racked, and after many and terrible sufferings, wherein he was partly burnt by the putting of lamps to his sides, he was beheaded, and so finished his martyrdom, still steadfast in the confession of Christ. 
At Granada, in Spain, is commemorated the blessed martyr Peter Paschal, Bishop of Jaen, of the Order of the Blessed Mary of Ransom for the Redemption of Captives, who suffered upon the 6th day of December, (in the year 1300.) Upon the same 23rd day of October, were also born into the better life  
At Constantinople, (in the year 878,) the holy Archbishop Ignatius, who suffered much at the hands of the Caesar Bardas, because he rebuked him for having put away his wife, and was sent into exile, but was restored by Nicholas I., Pope of Rome, and in the end fell asleep in peace. 
At Bordeaux, (in the fifth century,) the holy Confessor Severinus, Bishop of Cologne, (and afterward of Bordeaux.) 
At Rouen, (in the seventh century,) holy Romanus, Bishop (of that see.) 
At Salerno, (in the fifth century,) holy Verus, Bishop (of that see.) In the country of Amiens, (in the eighth century,) the holy Priest Domitius. 
At Poitiers, the holy Confessor Benedict. 
At Willach, in Pannonia, the holy Confessor John of Capistrano, of the Order of Friars Minor, illustrious for the holiness of his life and for his zeal for the propagation of the Catholic faith, who by his prayers and miracles procured the defeat of a vast army of Turks, and delivered the fortress of Belgrade from beleaguerment. We keep his feast upon the 28th day of March. 
