[Officium]
Octave Day of the Holy Innocents

[Lectio4]
From the Sermons of St. Augustine, Bishop (of Hippo.)
!1st for Childermas.
The Lord is born, and sorrow breaketh out, not in heaven but on earth; to mothers is proclaimed lamentation, to angels joy, to children translation. God is born, and innocence must be offered up to Him Who cometh to condemn the malice of the world. The Lamb that taketh away the sins of the world is come to be crucified, and the tender flock is brought to the sacrifice. But the mothers will lament over them whose inarticulate bleating is silenced for ever. Let us turn a look on this great martyrdom, this heart-rending sorrow. The sword is drawn, though there is no offence to punish, only jealousy shrieking for Him Who is born, and doth no violence. And here are mothers weeping over the lambs of the flock. In Ramah was there a voice heard, weeping and great mourning. which shall be returned hereafter, but they are pledges taken without being given, impounded without being entrusted.

[Lectio5]
Nature is herself our witness of what the scene must have been when the tyrant dashed the little ones against the stones. The childless mothers tore their hair; those, whose infants had still escaped, strove vainly to hide them, and their very cries betrayed them, too young to have learnt the silence of fear. Sometimes the wretched mother struggled with the executioner, as he dragged the child to which she clung from her arms. The fruit of her body is torn from her breast. Was it for this that her womb bore it, and her paps gave it suck? Had she carried it so tenderly, that the murderer might seize it? It had come of her body only to be dashed against the stones.

[Lectio6]
Sometimes a broken-hearted woman cried to the ruffian to kill her also; wherefore leave her to her childless widowhood? If fault there were, the fault was hers, then why not let her suffer and follow her lost one? Some must have cried out that all were being slain for the sake of One, and that One had escaped. And surely some called for the coming of the Messiah to deliver them. Come, come, O Saviour, how long do we wait for thee? Thou art Almighty come, and save our children. And so the cry of the mother and the sacrifice of her offspring went up together to heaven.

[Lectio7]
From the Holy Gospel according to Matthew
!Matt 2:13-18
In that time an angel of the Lord appeared in sleep to Joseph, saying: Arise, and take the child and his mother, and fly into Egypt: and be there until I shall tell thee. And so on.
_
Homily by St. John Chrysostom, Patriarch (of Constantinople.)
!8th on Matthew.
When Joseph had heard this he was not troubled, neither did he say, This is doubtful, or at least obscure. Thou saidst not long ago, that He shall save His people, and now apparently Himself He cannot save; but we are to flee, and journey far, and dwell in a strange land. thy works belie thy words. But Joseph said none of these things, for he was faithful; neither did he curiously ask of the angel the time of his return, which God was not pleased to show him, but only to send him that word, Be thou there until I bring thee word.

[Lectio8]
He was not slothful, but obeyed cheerfully, and by faith bore all tribulations with joy. God in His mercy mingled some joy with his sorrow, as He doth in all the saints, whom He will have to abide continually neither in sorrow, nor in joy but weaveth their life ever with a strange diversity. And let us consider how He did it here.

[Lectio9]
When St. Joseph knew that the Virgin was with child, he was greatly troubled; but forthwith an Angel came to take away his fears. The Lord was born and he rejoiced with exceeding joy; but straightway came the great danger, when all Jerusalem was troubled, the king in great wrath, and murderers seeking the young Child's life. The star shone over Bethlehem, and the wise men came to worship; but Herod sought to slay the Saviour; and they arose, and fled into a far country.
&teDeum
