[Officium]
St. Hilary, Bishop of Poitiers, Confessor and Doctor of the Church
(sed rubrica 1570 aut rubrica 1617)
St. Hilary, Bishop of Poitiers, Confessor

[Name]
Hilary

[Lectio4]
This Hilary was born of a noble family in Aquitaine, and is distinguished as a divine and an orator. He was married in his earlier life, but even then lived the life of a monk and on account of his remarkable holiness, was ultimately made Bishop of Poitiers, (about the year 353,) in which office he did his duty so as to gain the universal praise of the faithful. At that time the Emperor Constantius was persecuting the Catholics by threats, by the plundering of their goods, by exile, and at length, by every species of cruelty, in order to force them to yield to the Arian heresy. Against the Arians Hilary set himself up as a brazen wall, and turned upon himself the fierceness of their anger. They assailed him by many artifices, and at last Saturnine, Bishop of Arles, at the Council of Beziers, (in 356,) procured his banishment to Phrygia. During this exile he raised a dead man to life, and wrote a work in twelve books on the Trinity, against the Arians.

[Lectio5]
In (the year 359,) the fourth of his exile, took place the Council of Seleucia in Isauria, at which Hilary was obliged to be present, but afterwards withdrew to Constantinople. Here he realised more sharply the awful nature of this crisis in the history of Christianity, published three pamphlets in the form of letters to the Emperor, and demanded from that Prince leave to hold a public disputation in his presence. The Arian Bishops Ursacius and Valens, whom Hilary had already confuted in writing, were afraid to meet him in debate, and therefore induced Constantius, under pretence of pardon, to send him back to his Bishopric, (in 360.) His mother, the Church of Gaul, to use the language of Jerome, received him with open arms on his return from the battle with the heretics. He was followed to Poitiers by Martin, afterwards Bishop of Tours, whose after holiness was a fruit of his teaching.

[Lectio6beginning]
Henceforth he ruled the Church of Poitiers in great peace. By his exertions the Church of Gaul was led to denounce the Arian blasphemy. His wonderful learning is seen in his numerous works, of which Jerome write to Laeta that he deemeth them quite faultless. One can follow Hilary in his books, saith he, without tripping once. He passed from earth to heaven upon the thirteenth day of January, in the year of our Lord 369, in the reign of the Emperors Valentinian and Valens.

[Lectio6recentaddition]
He had already been called an illustrious Doctor of the Church, by many Fathers and Councils, and was so styled in the Liturgy in some Dioceses, when at length, (in the year 1850,) Pope Pius IX., at the prayer of the Synod of Bordeaux, and in accordance with a resolution of the Sacred Congregation of Rites, proclaimed and confirmed the title, and commanded that the Mass and Office of his Feast should be everywhere said as those of a Doctor.

[Lectio94]
Hilary, born of a noble family in Aquitaine, had few equals in teaching and eloquence. Made bishop of Poitiers, he exercised his ministry in such a way as to gain the highest praise from the faithful. His vigorous campaign for the Catholic faith led to a four year exile in Phrygia. There he raised a dead man to life and performed other miracles. He wrote twelve books on the Trinity against the Arians, and induced all Gaul to condemn the Arian blasphemy. He wrote many books showing wonderful learning; St. Jerome writing to Laeta, testifies in these words that they can be read with out the least fear of error: one can run through Hilary's works without stumbling. He went to heaven on the 13th of January in the year 369. Pius IX, at the request of the synod of Bordeaux, declared and confirmed him to be a Doctor of the universal Church.
&teDeum
