[Rank]
In apparitione Beatae Mariae Virginis;;Duplex majus;;4;;ex C11

[RankNewcal]
In apparitione Beatae Mariae Virginis;;Duplex optional;;2;;ex C11

[Rule]
ex C11;
9 lectiones
Psalmi Dominica
Antiphonas horas
Doxology=Nat 

[Ant Vespera]
She is the brightness * of eternal light, and the unspotted mirror.;;109
A woman * clothed with the sun, and the moon under her feet, and on her head a crown of twelve stars.;;112
Thou art the glory of Jerusalem, * thou art the joy of Israel, thou art the honour of our people;;121
Blessed art thou, * O Virgin Mary, by the Lord, the most high God, above all women upon the earth;;126
This day the Lord * hath so magnified thy name that thy praise shall not depart out of the mouth of men.;;147

[Capitulum Vespera]
!Song 2:13-14
v. Arise, my love, my beautiful one, and come: My dove in the clefts of the rock, in the hollow places of the wall, show me thy face, let thy voice sound in my ears.
$Deo gratias

[Ant 1]
She is * my dove, my perfect one, my undefiled.

[Oratio]
O God, who by the Immaculate Conception of the Virgin didst prepare a worthy dwelling place for thy Son, we humbly beseech thee; that we, who celebrate the appearance of the same Virgin, may obtain health of soul and body.
$Per eumdem

[Hymnus Matutinum]
v. Thee would we hymn, O spotless one,
Blest Mother of a virgin Son,
And as we chant thy praises meet,
Do thou for us God's grace entreat.
_
Poor Adam's guilty heirs are we,
His sin-infected progeny;
But thou, for Christ's sake, we believe,
From sins' infection hadst reprieve.
_
Thus, boast of mankind, free from sin
In thy so glorious origin,
The envious dragon, 'neath thy heel,
On his crushed head Christ's might doth feel.
_
O flower of the human race,
Who took'st away poor Eve's disgrace,
Obtain for every wavering one
To serve without reproach thy Son.
_
When that old serpent would beguile
Our foolish hearts with sinful wile,
Gain us the might to smite him down
And win the blessed victor's crown.
_
* All honour, laud, and glory be,
O Jesu, Virgin-born, to thee,
Whom with the Father we adore,
And Holy Ghost, for evermore. 
Amen.

[Ant Matutinum]
Hail, full of grace; * the Lord is with thee.;;8
Blessed art thou among women * and blessed is the fruit of thy womb.;;18
Fear not, Mary, * thou hast found grace with the Lord.;;23
V. God almighty hath girt me with strength. 
R. And made my way blameless.
He that is mighty * hath done great things to me, and holy is his name.;;44
The most High * hath sanctified his own tabernacle: God is in the midst thereof, she shall not be moved.;;45
The Lord possessed thee * in the beginning of his ways, and he hath loved thee with everlasting love.;;86
V. God will help her with his countenance. 
R. God is in the midst thereof, she shall not be moved.
The hand of the Lord * hath strengthened thee, and therefore thou shalt be blessed for ever.;;95
Fear not, * for this law is not made for thee, but for all others.;;96
The Lord hath blessed thee * by his power, because by thee he hath brought our enemies to nought.;;97
V. Grace is poured abroad in thy lips. 
R. Therefore hath God blessed thee for ever.

[Lectio1]
Lesson from the book of Proverbs
!Prov 8:12-17
12 I wisdom dwell in counsel, and am present in learned thoughts.
13 The fear of the Lord hateth evil: I hate arrogance, and pride, and every wicked way, and a mouth with a double tongue.
14 Counsel and equity is mine, prudence is mine, strength is mine.
15 By me kings reign, and lawgivers decree just things,
16 By me princes rule, and the mighty decree justice.
17 I love them that love me: and they that in the morning early watch for me, shall find me.

[Responsory1]
R. Wisdom which reacheth from end to end mightily, and ordereth all things sweetly, hath built herself a house: 
* Behold the tabernacle of God with men. 
V. I saw the holy city, the new Jerusalem, prepared as a bride adorned for her husband.
R. Behold the tabernacle of God with men.

[Lectio2]
!Prov 8:18-25
18 With me are riches and glory, glorious riches and justice.
19 For my fruit is better than gold and the precious stone, and my blossoms than choice silver.
20 I walk in the way of justice, in the midst of the paths of judgment,
21 That I may enrich them that love me, and may fill their treasures.
22 The Lord possessed me in the beginning of his ways, before he made any thing from the beginning.
23 I was set up from eternity, and of old before the earth was made.
24 The depths were not as yet, and I was already conceived. neither had the fountains of waters as yet sprung out:
25 The mountains with their huge bulk had not as yet been established: before the hills I was brought forth:

[Responsory2]
R. As the rainbow giving light in the clouds, and as the flower of roses in the days of the spring, and as the lilies on the brink of the water, 
* Thus shineth the Virgin immaculate. 
V. I will set my bow in the clouds, and it shall be a sign of my covenant with you.
R. Thus shineth the Virgin immaculate.

[Lectio3]
!Prov 8:34-36; 9:1-5
34 Blessed is the man that heareth me, and that watcheth daily at my gates, and waiteth at the posts of my doors.
35 He that shall find me, shall find life, and shall have salvation from the Lord:
36 But he that shall sin against me, shall hurt his own soul. All that hate me love death.
1 Wisdom hath built herself a house, she hath hewn her out seven pillars.
2 She hath slain her victims, mingled her wine, and set forth her table.
3 She hath sent her maids to invite to the tower, and to the walls of the city:
4 Whosoever is a little one, let him come to me. And to the unwise she said:
5 Come, eat my bread, and drink the wine which I have mingled for you.

[Responsory3]
R. Arise, my love, my beautiful one, and come, my dove: 
* Shew me thy face, let thy voice sound in my ears. 
V. The voice of the turtle is heard in our land.
R. Shew me thy face, let thy voice sound in my ears
&Gloria
R. Shew me thy face, let thy voice sound in my ears

[Lectio4]
In the fourth year from the dogmatic definition of the Immaculate Conception of the Blessed Virgin, at the bank of the river Gave near the town of Lourdes of the diocese of Tarbes in France, the Virgin herself in a bend of the rock above the grotto of Massabiele, often shewed herself to a certain girl, called in the vernacular tongue Bernadette, indeed most poor but noble and pious, to be seen. The Immaculate Virgin appeared with a young and kind appearance, clothed with a white garment and white veil, and girt with a blue girdle; she adorned her bare feet with a golden rose. On the first day of the apparition, which was the eleventh of February in the one thousand eight hundred fifty-eighth year, she taught the girl the sign of the cross to be duly and piously made, and she incited her, by her example, to the recitation of the sacred rosary, turning over with her hand the chaplet, which before was hanging down from her arm: which she supplied also in the other apparitions. And on the second day of the apparition, the girl in the simplicity of her heart, fearing diabolic fraud, flung holy water on the Virgin; but the blessed Virgin, smiling gently, shewed her face more kindly to her. And when she appeared a third time, she invited the girl to the grotto for fifteen days. Thence she often addressed her; then commanded, that it might be declared to the priests, a chapel to be built there, and to be approached there for supplications in a manner of solemnity. Moreover she commanded that from the spring, which thus far was hidden under the sand but now was about to erupt, she might drink the water, and by it cleanse herself. Finally on the feast day of the Annunciation, to the girl earnestly inquiring her name, the Virgin, for whose appearance she was so often deemed worthy, the Virgin, her hands having been moved to her breast and her eyes raised to heaven, answered: I am the Immaculate Conception.

[Responsory4]
R. Who is she, that cometh forth as the morning rising, 
* Fair as the moon, bright as the sun? 
V. She is my dove, my perfect one, my undefiled.
R. Fair as the moon, bright as the sun?

[Lectio5]
The fame of favours becoming widespread, which the faithful were said to have received in the sacred grotto, in time the assembly of men increased, whom the sanctity of the place called to the grotto. Therefore the bishop of Tarbes moved by the fame of the wonders and the purity of the girl, after a juridical inquiry of the happenings, approved by his decree the signs of the apparition to be supernatural, and permitted the worship of the immaculate Virgin in the same grotto. Soon a chapel is built: from that day the almost innumerable crowds of the faithful, for the purpose of of prayer and supplication, from France, Belgium, Italy, Spain, and the other provinces of Europe and also from the remote regions of America arrived there in every year, and the name of the Immaculate of Lourdes becometh famous of countries everywhere. The water of the spring, having been carried into all parts of the world, restored health to the sick. And the Catholic world mindful of such great favours, built holy shrines there with wonderful work. Innumerable banners, as if monuments of received benefits, sent there by cities and nations, decorate the shrine of the Virgin with wonderful adornment. In this as if her own seat the immaculate Virgin is continually honoured: indeed by day with prayers, religious chant and other solemn ceremonies; and by night with those solemn supplications, by which the almost infinite crowds of pilgrims proceed with candles and lit torches and sing the praises of the blessed Virgin.

[Responsory5]
R. In the last days the mountain a house for the Virgin Mary shall be prepared on the top of mountains, and it shall be exalted above the heavens, and many people shall go and say: 
* Come and let us go up to the mountain. 
V. The dwelling in thee is as it were of all rejoicing. 
R. Come and let us go up to the mountain.

[Lectio6]
It is known by all for certain the pilgrimages of this sort to have stirred up faith, in a world becoming cold, the soul to have increased to profess the Christian law, and to have spread the worship of the immaculate Virgin in a wonderful manner. In which wonderful profession of faith the Christian people have the priests as leaders, who lead their people thence. The holy Bishops themselves also frequently visit the holy place, lead pilgrimages, and take part in more solemn feasts. Nor indeed is it rare to observe these empurpled fathers of the Roman Church approaching humble in the manner of pilgrims. Even these Roman Pontiffs, for their piety towards the Immaculate of Lourdes, enhanced the sacred shrine with most noble gifts. Pius the ninth, with sacred indulgences, distinguished it with the privilege of an archconfraternity and title of a minor Basilica; and willed the image honoured there of the Godbearer, with solemn rite through his apostolic legate in France, to be adorned with a crown. And Leo the thirteenth also conferred innumerable benefits, granted indulgences in the manner of a jubilee in the twenty-fifth year of the Apparition occurring, promoted pilgrimages by his authority and word, and arranged to complete by his name the solemn dedication of the Church under the title of the Rosary. He accumulated the extent of which benefits, when, with the asking of many bishops, he kindly granted a solemn feast to be celebrated under the title of the Apparition of the blessed Virgin Mary immaculate with a proper Office and proper Mass. Finally supreme Pontiff Pius the tenth for his piety towards the Godbearer, and agreeing to the wishes of many holy Bishops, extended the same feast to the universal Church.

[Responsory6]
R. Thou hast prevented her, O Lord, with blessings of sweetness, thou hast set on her head 
* A crown of precious stones. 
V. Her glory is great in thy salvation, glory and great beauty shalt thou lay upon her. 
R. A crown of precious stones. 
&Gloria
R. A crown of precious stones. 

[Lectio94]
About four years after the definition of the dogma of the Immaculate Conception of the Blessed Virgin, a girl named Bernadette asserted that she had seen the Immaculate Mother of God several times. The place of the apparition was a grotto of the cliff by the bank of the Gave river, near the town of Lourdes, France, in the diocese of Tarbes. The many great miracles which followed were evidence enough for any prudent and faithful Christian that the finger of God was there. The location of a hitherto unknown spring at the grotto had been revealed in one of the apparitions; and the miracles for which Lourdes became best known were those very frequent occasions when the sick regained their health after drinking the water of the spring. And so, as news of the benefits said to be received by the faithful at the holy grotto was spreading abroad and the number coming there was increasing day by day, the Bishop of Tarbes carried out an official investigation and then gave permission for the cult of the Immaculate Virgin at the grotto. Soon a church was built. Vast crowds of the faithful have come to Lourdes each year, and the name of the Immaculate Mother of God continueth to increase in glory all over the world. Adding to this glory are the events during the procession of the most Blessed Sacrament: year after year, among the sick brought to Lourdes from all parts of the world to ask health from the Lord through the intercession of his Immaculate Mother, many are immediately cured. Rightly influenced by these events, Pope Pius X extended to the Universal Church the feast already granted to certain places by Leo XIII.
&teDeum

[Responsory7]
R. Therefore do thou call upon the Lord, speak to the King for us, 
* And deliver us from death. 
V. All you that thirst, come to the waters, and draw salvation from the Lord. 
R. And deliver us from death.

[Responsory8]
R. The Lord God planted a paradise of pleasure, and brought forth the tree of life in its midst: 
* And a river went out of the place of pleasure. 
V. Thy plants are a paradise, O Virgin Mary. 
R. And a river went out of the place of pleasure.
&Gloria
R. And a river went out of the place of pleasure.

[Ant Laudes]
She is the brightness * of eternal light, and the unspotted mirror.
A woman * clothed with the sun, and the moon under her feet, and on her head a crown of twelve stars.
Thou art the glory of Jerusalem, * thou art the joy of Israel, thou art the honour of our people.
Blessed art thou, * O Virgin Mary, by the Lord, the most high God, above all women upon the earth.
This day the Lord * hath so magnified thy name that thy praise shall not depart out of the mouth of men.

[Hymnus Laudes]
v. O rosy dawn! that dost proclaim
Salvation's happy day,
To thee, O Virgin, 'mid night's shades,
Thy people humbly pray.
_
The torrent, that engulfs all those
Within this whirlpool drawn,
Rests calm as o'er its softened wave
The ark of God borne
_
While earth is parched with scorching
heat,
Alone art thou bedewed;
With dew o'erspread the earth around,
And thou untouched art view'd
_
The serpent rears his head aloft
Disgorging poisoned spleen;
But thou his proud, inflated head
Dost crush with pow'r as Queen.
_
O loving Mother, hear our pray'r,
As suppliant we cry;
Protect us in our strife with hell
Who dost its power defy.
_
O Jesu, born of Virgin bright,
All glory be to thee,
With Father and with Paraclete,
Through all eternity.
Amen.

[Ant 2]
Beautiful aurora of salvation, * out of thee, O Virgin Mary, came forth the sun of justice who has visited us, the Orient from on high.

[Lectio Prima]
!Sir 24:25-26
v. In me is all grace of the way and of the truth, in me is all hope of life and of virtue. Come over to me, all ye that desire me, and be filled with my fruits.

[Responsory Tertia]
R.br. Who is this that cometh up from the desert, * Flowing with delights?
R. Who is this that cometh up from the desert, * Flowing with delights?
V. Leaning upon her beloved.
R. Flowing with delights?
&Gloria
R. Who is this that cometh up from the desert, * Flowing with delights?
_
V. The daughters of Sion saw her.
R. And they declared her most blessed.

[Capitulum Sexta]
!Prov 8:18-19
v. With me are riches and glory, glorious riches and justice. For my fruit is better than gold and the precious stone.
$Deo gratias

[Responsory Sexta]
R.br. I am the Mother * Of fair love.
R. I am the Mother * Of fair love.
V. And of fear and of knowledge, and of holy hope.
R. Of fair love.
&Gloria
R. I am the Mother * Of fair love.
_
V. In me is all grace of the way and of the truth. 
R. In me is all hope of life and of virtue.

[Responsory Nona]
R.br. He that shall find me * Shall find life.
R. He that shall find me * Shall find life.
V. And shall draw salvation from the Lord.
R. Shall find life.
&Gloria
R. He that shall find me * Shall find life.
_
V. Come over to me, all ye that desire me. 
R. And be filled with my fruits.

[Hymnus Vespera 3]
v. Lo! Mary is exempt from stain of sin,
Proclaims the Pontiff high;
And earth applauding celebrates with joy
Her triumph, far and nigh.
_
Unto a lowly timid maid she shows
Her form in beauty fair,
And the Immaculate Conception truth
Her sacred lips declare.
_
O honoured cave, by Mary's smile adorned!
O hallow'd rock, whence spring
The living waters of a gushing stream,
The gifts of life to bring.
_
And thither from the farmost bounds of earth
The pilgrims wend their way,
And suppliant around the Virgin's shrine
Her powerful help they pray.
_
The sufferers' cry the Mother fondly hears,
And grants the longed-for grace;
And health restored, the pilgrim throng returns
Unto its native place.
_
O Virgin! have compassion on our needs,
Refresh us labouring on;
Obtain for us the joys of heavenly life,
When sorrow all is gone.
_
All praise and honour to the Father be,
And to his only Son,
And to the Spirit, Pow'r of both for aye,
In Godhead ever One. 
Amen.

[Ant 3]
Today the glorious Queen of heaven * appeared on earth; today her word brought to her people a pledge of peace and salvation; today the choirs of Angels and the faithful exult, celebrating with joy the immaculate Conception. Alleluia.
