[Rank]
St. Gabriel Confessor;;Duplex;;3;;vide C5

[Rule]
vide C5;;
9 lectiones
Lectio1 Quad

[Oratio]
O God, who didst teach blessed Gabriel to ponder well the sorrows of thy gentle Mother, whereby thou didst also exalt him to the glory of holiness and mighty works: grant us, after his example, in such wise to become one with thy Mother in her sorrows; that under her kindly protection we may attain everlasting salvation.
$Qui vivis

[Lectio1]
@Commune/C5:Lectio11

[Lectio2]
@Commune/C5:Lectio21

[Lectio3]
@Commune/C5:Lectio31

[Lectio4]
Gabriel, born at Assisi in Umbria of a respectable family, and called Francis in memory of his seraphic fellow-townsman, shewed from boyhood an excellent disposition of soul.  As a youth, when studying letters at Spoleto, he seemed for a time to be allured by the empty beauty and pomp of the world.  But by the gift of the merciful God, who had already called him to the perfection of a Christian life when he had fallen sick, he began to tire of the vanity of the world, and to desire immortal treasures alone.  But to quicken his obedience to the call of God, it happened that as he saw the celebrated Image of the Blessed Virgin being carried with solemn pomp outside the precincts of the church of Spoleto, he experienced the flame of divine love, and at the same time decided to enter the Institute of the Clerks of the Passion of Jesus.  Therefore, after overcoming no slight difficulties, he joyfully donned the somber habit in the secluded place of Morrovalle, and chose to be called Gabriel of Our Lady of Sorrows, to recall forever the memory of her joys and griefs.

[Lectio5]
In the novitiate, day by day he became conspicuous for regular observance and for the exercise of all the virtues, and in a short time he came to be considered a pattern of perfect holiness, not only by his companions and his seniors, but also beyond the confines of the monastery; he became a sweet odour in Christ in every place.  An assiduous devotee of the Lord's Passion, he spent days and nights meditating upon it.  He was drawn by unbelievable zeal towards the Holy Eucharist, a memorial of that Passion; and when he nourished himself with it, he burned with seraphic ardour.  There was nothing more noticeable than his filial piety towards the great Mother of God.  He was accustomed to pay her honour for every type of devotion, but especially to contemplate her stricken and afflicted by the sufferings of Jesus, with such sorrow that he shed floods of tears.  The sorrowful Virgin was, as it were, the whole reason of his being, and the teacher of the holiness that he had acquired.  As a result all his associates shared the one opinion that this servant of God had been inspired from on high so that the cult of St. Mary of Sorrows through his example might receive a great increase.

[Lectio6]
Among other virtues, he especially loved Christian humility and obedience; for he considered himself the least of all.  He therefore strove eagerly to do all the most menial work of the house, and he most diligently performed, not only the direct commands, but even the unexpressed wishes of his superiors.  Curbing his senses, and accustoming himself to a life of austerity, he retained unfaded the flower of his virginity, and completely crucified to the world, he lived to God alone, enjoying an intimate familiarity with his Lord.  And so, at Isola in the Abruzzi, filling the short span of his life with so many noble virtues, consumed by the fire of charity rather than by disease, and refreshed by the aid of the Mother of God, his soul flew to heaven in a most peaceful journey in the year 1862, at the age of twenty-four.  Then, as he had been made illustrious by God through miracles, Pope Pius X added him to the number of the Blessed in heaven.  Likewise, the Supreme Pontiff Benedict XV in 1920, two hundred years after the foundation of the Institute of the Passion, on the feast of the Ascension of the Lord, decreed the honours of the Saints to the blessed youth; and Pius XI extended his Office and Mass to the Universal Church.

[Lectio7]
From the Holy Gospel according to Mark
!Mark 10:13-21
At that time: They brought young children to Jesus, that he should touch them : and his disciples rebuked those that brought them.  And so on, and that which followeth.
_
A Homily by St. Venerable Bede the Priest
!Commentarium in Marcum 10:13-21
Jesus saith unto his disciples: Suffer the little children to come unto me, and forbid them not: for of such is the kingdom of God.  It is noteworthy that he saith : Of such : not: Of these.  That is, he is concerned with conduct, not with age ; for the reward is promised to all such as are like unto children, not in age, but in innocence and simplicity; as saith the Apostle: Be not children in understanding ; howbeit, in malice be ye children, but in understanding be men.  Verily I say unto you, Whosoever shall not receive the kingdom of God as a little child, he shall not enter therein.  A child doth not for long remain angry or remember an injury; he taketh no lustful pleasure in looking at a beautiful woman; he doth not think one thing and say another.  In like manner, ye also, unless ye have this innocence and purity of soul, cannot enter the kingdom of heaven.  We are commanded to receive the kingdom of God (that is, the teaching of the Gospel) like as children, because they, when learning, do not contradict their teacher, nor adduce reasons and arguments against them, but trustingly accept what they are taught in respectful silence and obedience.  And the Lord took them up in his arms, put his hands upon them, and blessed them.  He blesseth the children by taking them up in his arms, to shew that such as are poor in spirit do merit his blessing, grace, and love.

[Lectio8]
And as he was going forth on his journey, a certain man came running up, and fell on his knees before him, and asked him: Good Master, what shall I do that I may inherit eternal life?  Doubtless this seeker after eternal life was one of those who had heard the Lord say that whoso shall not receive the kingdom of God as little child shall not enter therein; and therefore, taking the safer course, he asketh for himself not in parables, but simply and openly, for teaching concerning the meritorious works by which eternal life is to be gained.  Whereupon Christ said: Thou knowest the commandments.  This is the chastity of childlike innocence, which is proposed for our imitation, if we wish to enter the kingdom of God.  But he answering, said unto him : Master, all these have I observed from my youth.  This man should not be considered as having asked the Lord with a view to tempting him (as some have thought), or to have lied about his life when he said he had kept the commandments of the law; but that rather he was trying to explain how he had hitherto lived.  Because, if he be considered guilty of lies and pretence, it would not have been said of Jesus, who looketh on the secrets of the heart, that he, beholding him, loved him.

[Lectio9]
For the love of the Lord goeth out to all those who not only keep the commandments of the law, but have regard even for things which are not of strict precept.  Which latter things he who came not to destroy the Law and the Prophets, but to fulfil them, sheweth forth unto such as would be perfect, saying: Sell whatsoever thou hast, and give to the poor, and thou shalt have treasure in heaven; and come, follow me.  Whosoever would be perfect must sell all (not merely in part, as did Ananias and Sapphira), and thereafter give all to the poor, and thus prepare for himself a treasure in the kingdom of heaven.  But contempt for riches is not enough to achieve perfection.  He must also follow the Saviour, leaving evil and doing good.  For it is easier to spurn the world than the will; and many spurn their riches, but fail thereafter to follow the Lord.  Whosoever would follow him must be his imitator, and walk in his footsteps.  For whoso saith he believeth in Christ ought also to walk as Christ walked.
&teDeum

[Lectio94]
Gabriel, born at Assisi in Umbria and called Francis in memory of his seraphic~
fellow-citizen gave evidence of great intellectual gifts. As a young man, when~
by the gift of God's mercy he had already been called to a more perfect life he~
fell ill and began to weary of the vanity of the world. Entering the Passionist~
congregation, he chose the name Gabriel of the Sorrowful Virgin, in order to~
keel in mind continually both the joy and the sorrows of the Virgin Mary.~
Honoring her in every way he was accustomed particularly to contemplating her as~
worn out and afflicted by Jesus' sufferings with such sorrow that he shed flood~
of tears. He kept his virginity intact and, following the strict usage of his~
congregation, he lived wholly crucified to the world, to God alone. Thus he~
complete, his short life in the exercise o all virtues; consumed by the fire of~
charity rather than by the force of his illness and refreshed by the aid of~
God's Mother, he went to heaven in the year 1862. Pope Pius X numbered him among,~
the blessed, Benedict XV among the saintsand Pius XI entered his office and Mass~
to the universal Church.
&teDeum

