[Rank]
S. Petri Celestini Papae et Confessoris;;Duplex;;3;;vide C4

[Rule]
vide C4;
9 lectiones

[Oratio]
O God, Who raised blessed Peter Celestine to the lofty dignity of Supreme~
Pontiff and taught him to prefer self-abasement instead; mercifully grant that~
by his example we may look upon all worldly things as naught, and may be worthy~
to reap in joy the rewards promised to the humble.
$Per Dominum

[Commemoratio 1]
!Commemoration of St. Pudentiana, Virgin
Ant. Come, Bride of Christ, and take the everlasting crown * which the Lord hath prepared for thee. (Alleluia.)
_
V. In thy comeliness and thy beauty. (Alleluia.)
R. Go forward, fare prosperously, and reign. (Alleluia.)
_
$Oremus.
v. Hear us, O God our saviour, that we who are gladdened by the Festival of blessed Pudentiana, thy virgin, may learn from it piety and devotion.
$Per Dominum

[Lectio4]
This Peter, who is called Peter Celestine, because when he became Pope he did so under the title of Celestine V, was the son of respectable Catholic parents, and was born at Isernia in Apulia, (about the year of grace 1221.) He was hardly entered on boyhood, when he withdrew into a desert, in order to keep his soul safe from the snares of the world. In solitude he fed his mind with heavenly meditation, and brought his body into subjection, even by wearing an iron chain next to his bare flesh. He founded, under the Rule of St. Benedict, that congregation which was afterwards known as the Celestine. His light, as of a candle set upon a candlestick, could not be kept hidden, and after the Church of Rome had for a long while been widowed of a shepherd, he was chosen without his~
knowledge and in his absence, to fill the chair of Peter. The news of his election filled himself with as great amazement, as it did all others with sudden joy. When, however, he was seated in the exalted place of the Papal dignity, he found that the many cares by which he was beset made it well-nigh impossible for him to give himself to his accustomed meditations (after four months,) of his own free will he resigned the burden and the honour together (on the 13th day of December, 1294); and, while he sought to return to his old way of life, (on the 19th day of May, 1296,) he fell asleep in the Lord. How precious his death was in His sight was gloriously manifested by a Cross which appeared shining in the air before the door of the cell. He was illustrious for miracles both during his life and after his death, and when these had been duly investigated, Clement V., in the eleventh year after his departure hence, enrolled his name among those of the Saints.

[Lectio5]
From the Book of Moral Reflections upon Job, written by Pope St. Gregory the Great
!(Bk. x Chap. xvi on Job xii)
The simplicity of the righteous is made a subject of derision. The wisdom of this world hideth our true feelings by artifice, and useth language to conceal our thoughts this is the wisdom which demonstrated the truth of falsehood, and showeth the falsehood of the truth. This kind of shrewdness the young acquire by practice, and children pay for the learning it. Those who are good at this look down upon their neighbours those who are bad at it are humble and timid, and wonder at it in others they regard this astuteness too, wrong though it be, with wistful admiration, under softened epithets. Un-straightforwardness is called good breeding. The principles of the world teach those who entertain them, to try and rise to distinction, and when they have attained the bubble of glory which is so soon to pass away, to feel it sweet to have at their feet them on whom they may wreak rich revenge. These principles teach a man, as long as he is strong enough, to give way to nobody else, and, if he hath no chance by force, to try and attain his object by diplomacy.

[Lectio6]
The wisdom of the righteous is the contrary of all this. They seek to avoid deception, to give their thoughts a clear expression in their words, to love the truth because it is the truth, to avoid falsehood, and rather to suffer than to inflict evil. Such are they who seek not to avenge themselves for wrong, and deem it gain to be despised for the truth's sake. This their simplicity is made a subject of derision, for such as are wise in this world believe the purity of their virtue to be simple foolery. Whatsoever is done innocently, they consider without doubt stupid. Such works as the truth approveth are idiotic, when tried by carnal standards of wisdom. After all, what stupider thing is there in this world than to express our real thoughts in our words, to keep nothing quiet by skilful tact, to repay no injuries, to pray for them which curse us, to seek poverty, to give up property, to strive not with such as take from us, to turn the other cheek to the smiter

[Lectio93]
!Commemoration for the Holy Maiden Pudentiana.
The maiden Pudentiana was the orphan daughter of Pudens the Roman Senator. She was a Christian of eminent godliness. She with her sister Praxedes distributed to the poor the money which they obtained by the sale of their inheritance. She gave herself continually to fasting and prayer. By her care the whole of the household, being ninety-six persons, were baptized by Pope Pius. Whereas the Emperor Antonine had forbidden the Christians to offer sacrifice in public, Pope Pius used to meet with them in Pudentiana's house, to celebrate the holy rites. She was a gracious hostess to them, and ministered to them in such things as are needful for the body. She thus busied herself in works of Christian godliness until she passed from this present life to a better. She was buried in her father's sepulchre in the cemetery of Priscilla on the Salarian Way upon the 19th day of May.
&teDeum

[Commemoratio 2]
!Commemoration of S. Pudentiana, Virgin
Ant. The kingdom of heaven is like unto a merchantman * seeking goodly pearls, who, when he had found one pearl of great price, went and sold all that he had, and bought it. (Alleluia.)
_
V. Grace is poured into thy lips. (Alleluia.)
R. Therefore God hath blessed thee for ever.
_
$Oremus.
v. Hear us, O God our saviour, that we who are gladdened by the Festival of blessed Pudentiana, thy virgin, may learn from it piety and devotion.
$Per Dominum

[Lectio94]
Peter, who is called Peter Celestine, because when he became Pope he did so under the title of Celestine V, was the son of respectable Catholic parents, and was born at Isernia in Apulia. He was hardly entered on boyhood, when he withdrew into a desert, in order to keep his soul safe from the snares of the world. In solitude he fed his mind with heavenly meditation, and brought his body into subjection, even by wearing an iron chain next to his bare flesh. He founded, under the Rule of St. Benedict, that congregation which was afterwards known as the Celestines. His light, as of a candle set upon a candlestick, could not be kept hidden, and after the Church of Rome had for a long while been widowed of a shepherd, he was chosen without his knowledge and in his absence, to fill the chair of Peter. The news of his election filled himself with as great amazement, as it did all others with sudden joy. When, however, he was seated in the exalted place of the Papal dignity, he found that the many cares by which he was beset made it well-nigh impossible for him to give himself to his accustomed meditations; of his own free will, he resigned the burden and the honor together; and, while he sought to return to his old way of life, he fell asleep in the Lord. How precious his death was in his sight was gloriously manifested by a Cross which appeared shining in the air before the door of the cell. He was illustrious for miracles both during his life and after his death, and when these had been duly investigated, Clement V, in the eleventh year after his departure hence, enrolled his name among those of the Saints.
&teDeum
