[Officium]
St. Bede the Venerable, Confessor and Doctor of the Church

[Name]
Bede

[Oratio]
O God, Who dost enlighten Thy Church by the learning of blessed Bede Thy Confessor and our teacher, mercifully grant unto Thy servants ever to be enlightened by his wisdom and helped for his sake.
$Per Dominum

[Lectio4]
Bede, a priest, was born at Jarrow, on the borders of England and Scotland. At the age of seven years he was placed under the care of holy Benedict Biscop, Abbot of Wearmouth, to be educated. Thereafter he became a monk, and so ordered his life that, whilst he should devote himself wholly to the study of the sciences and of doctrine, he might in nothing relax the discipline of his Order. There was no branch of learning in which he was not most thoroughly versed, but his chief care was the study of Holy Scriptures; and that he might the better understand them he acquired a knowledge of the Greek and Hebrew tongues. When he was thirty years of age he was ordained priest at the command of his Abbot, and immediately, on the advice of Acca, Bishop of Hexham, undertook the work of expounding the Sacred Books. In his interpretations he so strictly adhered to the teaching of the holy Fathers that he would advance nothing which was not approved by their judgment, nay, had the warrant of their very words. He ever hated sloth, and by habitually passing from reading to prayer, and in turn from prayer to reading, he so inflamed his soul that often amid his reading and teaching he was bathed in tears. Lest also his mind should be distracted by the cares of transitory things, he never would take the office of Abbot when it was offered to him.

[Lectio5]
The name of Bede soon became so famous for learning and piety that St. Sergius the Pope thought of calling him to Rome, where, certainly, he might have helped to solve the very difficult questions which had then arisen concerning sacred things. He wrote many books for the bettering of the lives of the faithful, and defending and extending of the faith. By those he gained everywhere such a reputation that the holy martyr Bishop Boniface styled him a Light of the Church; Lanfranc called him The Teacher of the English, and the Council of Aix-la-Chapelle The Admirable Doctor. But as his writings were publicly read in the churches during his life, and as it was not allowable to call him already a saint, they named him The Venerable, a title which in all times after has remained peculiarly his. The power of his teaching was the greater also, in that it was attested by a holy life and the graces of religious observance. In this way, by his earnestness and example, his disciples, who were many and distinguished, were made eminent, not only in letters and the sciences, but in personal holiness.

[Lectio6]
Broken at length by age and labour, he was seized by a grievous illness. Though he suffered under it for more than seven weeks, he ceased not from his prayers and his interpreting of the Scriptures; for at that time he was turning the Gospel of John into English for the use of his people. But when, on the Eve of the Ascension, he perceived that death was coming upon him, he desired to be fortified with the last sacraments of the Church: then, after he had embraced his companions, and was laid on a piece of sackcloth on the ground, he repeated the words, Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Ghost, and fell asleep in the Lord. His body, very sweet, as it is related, breathing sweet odour, was buried in the monastery of Jarrow, and afterwards was translated to Durham with the relics of St. Cuthbert. Bede, who was already a Doctor among the Benedictines, and in other religious Orders, and venerated in certain dioceses, was declared by Pope Leo XIII., after consulting with the Congregation of Sacred Rites, to be a Doctor of the universal Church; and the Mass and Office for Doctors was ordered to be recited by all on his feast-day.

[Lectio94]
Bede the priest was born at Jarrow, on the borders of England and Scotland. When a monk, he so arranged his life as to devote himself completely to the study of the liberal arts and sacred doctrine, without in any way relaxing the discipline of the Rule. There was no kind of learning in which he was not thoroughly versed; but his special interest was the study of the Scriptures; and when he was made a priest, he undertook the task of explaining the holy books. In doing so, he adhered to the teaching of the holy Fathers so closely that he would say nothing not already approved by their judgment, and he even made use of their very words. Abhorring laziness, he would go straight from reading to prayer and from prayer to reading. To raise the level of morality among Christians and to defend and spread the faith, he wrote many books, which gained him such a reputation with everyone that his writings were publicly read in churches during his own lifetime. At length, worn out with age and labours, he fell asleep peacefully in the Lord. Leo XIII declared him a Doctor of the universal Church.
&teDeum

[Lectio7]
From the Holy Gospel according to Matthew
!Matt 5:13-19
AT that time Jesus said to His disciples: Ye are the salt of the earth. But if the salt have lost its savour, wherewith shall it be salted? And so on.
_
Homily of the Venerable Bede, Priest.
!On the Gospel
The Gospel saith, Ye are the salt of the earth. In these words the earth signifies human nature, and the salt signifies wisdom. Salt, verily, by its nature renders the earth unfruitful. Hence we read of cities, which in the anger of their victors were sown with salt. And hereto agreeth the teaching of the Apostle that by the salt of wisdom the lust of this world is restrained in the earth of human flesh, lest the foulness of vice should sprout up. But what if the salt shall have lost its savour? That is to say If you, by whom the people are to be seasoned, are, on account of fear of persecution, or terror, you should lose the kingdom of heaven, placed outside the Church, there is no doubt that you will incur the taunts of the enemy. Ye are the light of the world that is to say You, because ye are enlightened by the true light, ought to be the light of them who are in the world. A city set on an hill cannot be hid; that is to say The Apostles' teaching, founded upon Christ; in other words, the Church built upon Christ, out of many nations, in the unity of the faith, and bound together with the cement of love; to those who enter it, a place of safety; to those who go up to it, toilsome; the guardian of those who dwell in it, and excluding every enemy.

[Lectio8]
It either doth any man light a candle and put it under a bushel; but upon a candlestick. So he who puts the light under the bushel is he who for his own temporal ends would hide and tamper with the light of doctrine; but upon the candlestick he places it who follows the ministry of God in order that the teaching of the truth may be accounted a greater thing than the service of the body. In another aspect, the Saviour lighted the candle when He filled our mortal body with the flame of the God-head; and He placed it on a candlestick, that is the Church; for He fixed the faith of His incarnation upon our foreheads. Which light cannot be placed under a bushel; that is to say, it cannot be included within the measures of the law, nor in Judea alone, but has lightened the whole earth.
