[Rank]
Beatae Mariae Virginis Reginae;;Duplex II classis;;5.1;;ex C11

[Rank1960]
Beatae Mariae Virginis Reginae;;Duplex II classis;;5;;ex C11

[RankNewcal]
Beatae Mariae Virginis Reginae;;Duplex;;3;;ex C11

[Rule]
ex C11;
9 lectiones
Ipsa Virgo Virginum
Doxology=Nat
Antiphonas horas
Psalmi Dominica

[Capitulum Vespera]
!Sir 24:5; 24:7
v. I came out of the mouth of the most High, the firstborn before all creatures: I dwelt in the highest places, and my throne is in a pillar of a cloud.
$Deo gratias

[Versum 1]
V. Hail, Queen of mercy, alleluia.
R. Of whom was born Christ, our King, alleluia.

[Ant 1]
Blessed thou who didst believe, * what was spoken to thee by the Lord: with Christ thou reignest for ever, alleluia.

[Oratio]
Grant, O Lord, we beseech Thee, to those who are celebrating this solemnity of the Blessed Virgin Mary our Queen: that safe in her protection we may deserve to enjoy present peace and future glory.
$Per Dominum

[Invit]
Christ our King, who crowned his Mother, * Come, let us adore, alleluia.

[Hymnus Matutinum]
v. Above the heavens reignest thou,
O Virgin Queen forever blest;
Above all creatures thou art now
Adorned with beauty, golden dressed.
_
Creation's culminating work
Thou shinest in thy Maker's sight,
Whose destiny it is to bear
The Son who made thee, God of light.
_
As Christ reigns King from high upon
The Cross, empurpled by his Blood,
Thou art the Queen of all to whom
Redemption came from Holy Rood.
_
Thou who with such glories art adorned,
Look down upon us as we sing,
Accept the grateful praises now
We offer thee, our blessed Queen.
_
All honor, laud, and glory be,
O Jesu, Virgin-Born, to thee;
Whom with the Father we adore,
And Holy Ghost, for evermore.
Amen.

[Ant Matutinum]
Blessed art thou among women, * and blessed is the fruit of thy womb, alleluia.;;8
O Holy Mother of God * thou hast yielded a pleasant odor like the best myrrh, alleluia.;;18
Sing for us again and again before this maiden's bed * the tender idylls of the play, alleluia.;;23
V. Hail, Queen of mercy, alleluia.
R. Of whom was born Christ, our King, alleluia.
In thy comeliness and thy beauty, * go forward, fare prosperously, and reign, alleluia.;;44
God shall give her the help of His countenance; * God is in the midst of her, she shall not be moved, alleluia.;;45
O Holy Mother of God * all we who dwell in thee are in gladness, alleluia.;;86
V. By the cross of Jesus stood his Mother, alleluia. 
R. Sharing in his passion, the Queen of all the world, alleluia.
Joy to thee, * O Virgin Mary, thou hast trampled down all the heresies in the whole world, alleluia.;;95
Holy Virgin, my praise by thee accepted be * give me strength against thine enemies, alleluia.;;96
After thy delivery thou still remainest a virgin * undefiled Mother of God, pray for us, alleluia.;;97
V. All generations shall call me blessed, alleluia. 
R. Because he who is mighty hath done great things for me, alleluia.

[Lectio1]
Lesson from the book of Ecclesiasticus
!Sir 24:5-11
5 I came out of the mouth of the most High, the firstborn before all creatures:
6 I made that in the heavens there should rise light that never faileth, and as a cloud I covered all the earth:
7 I dwelt in the highest places, and my throne is in a pillar of a cloud.
8 I alone have compassed the circuit of heaven, and have penetrated into the bottom of the deep, and have walked in the waves of the sea,
9 And have stood in all the earth: and in every people,
10 And in every nation I have had the chief rule:
11 And by my power I have trodden under my feet the hearts of all the high and low: and in all these I sought rest, and I shall abide in the inheritance of the Lord.

[Responsory1]
R. Blessed art thou, Mary, because thou hast believed the Lord: 
* The things promised thee have been accomplished in thee, alleluia. 
V. Hail, Mary, full of grace, the Lord is with thee. 
R. The things promised thee have been accomplished in thee, alleluia. 

[Lectio2]
!Sir 24:14-16
14 From the beginning, and before the world, was I created, and unto the world to come I shall not cease to be, and in the holy dwelling place I have ministered before him.
15 And so was I established in Sion, and in the holy city likewise I rested, and my power was in Jerusalem.
16 And I took root in an honourable people, and in the portion of my God his inheritance, and my abode is in the full assembly of saints.

[Responsory2]
R. Let us reflect upon the royal dignity of the Virgin Mary, 
* For with Christ she reigneth forever, alleluia. 
V. Let us proclaim the glory of our Queen.
R. For with Christ she reigneth forever, alleluia. 

[Lectio3]
!Sir 24:24-30
24 I am the mother of fair love, and of fear, and of knowledge, and of holy hope.
25 In me is all grace of the way and of the truth, in me is all hope of life and of virtue.
26 Come over to me, all ye that desire me, and be filled with my fruits.
27 For my spirit is sweet above honey, and my inheritance above honey and the honeycomb.
28 My memory is unto everlasting generations.
29 They that eat me, shall yet hunger: and they that drink me, shall yet thirst.
30 He that hearkeneth to me, shall not be confounded: and they that work by me, shall not sin.

[Responsory3]
R. God hath chosen her, and preferred her; 
* He hath placed a crown of glory on her head, alleluia. 
V. And he maketh her dwell in his tabernacle.
R. He hath placed a crown of glory on her head, alleluia. 
&Gloria
R. He hath placed a crown of glory on her head, alleluia.

[Lectio4]
Sermon of St. Peter Canisius, Priest
!On the Incomparable Virgin Mary, Mother of God
If we follow St. John Damascene, St. Athanasius and others, are we not forced to call Mary Queen, since her father David receiveth the highest praise in Scripture as a renowned king, and her son as King of kings and Lord of lords, reigning forever? She is Queen, moreover, when compared with the Saints who reign like kings in the heavenly kingdom, co-heirs with Christ, the great King, placed on the same throne with him, as the Scripture saith. And as Queen she is second to none of the elect, but in dignity is raised so high above both Angels and men that nothing can be higher or holier than she, who alone hath the same Son as God the Father, and who seeth above her only God and Christ, and below her creatures other than herself.

[Responsory4]
R. Receive the word, O Virgin Mary, sent to thee by the Lord: 
* Behold, thou wilt conceive and bring forth God as well as man, alleluia. 
V. And thou wilt be called Queen over all the nations. 
R. Behold, thou wilt conceive and bring forth God as well as man, alleluia. 

[Lectio5]
The great Athanasius said clearly: Mary is not only the Mother of God, but also can be properly and truly called Queen and Lady, since in fact the Christ who was born of the Virgin Mother is God and Lord and also King. It is to this Queen, therefore, that the Psalmist's words are applied: The Queen taketh her place at thy right hand in garments of gold. Thus Mary is rightly called Queen, not only of heaven, but also of the heavens, as the Mother of the King of Angels, and as the Bride and beloved of the King of the heavens. O Mary, most august Queen and most faithful Mother, to whom no one prayeth in vain who prayeth devoutly, and to whom all mortal men are bound by the enduring memory of so many benefits, again and again reverently I beseech thee to accept and be pleased with every evidence of my devotion to thee, to value the poor gift I offer according to the zeal with which it is offered, and to recommend it to thine all-powerful Son.

[Responsory5]
R. Behold, this Child is destined for the fall and the rise of many, 
* And thine own soul a sword shall pierce, alleluia. 
V. Hail, Mother of Christ, sharing in his passion, Queen of all the world.
R. And thine own soul a sword shall pierce, alleluia. 

[Lectio6]
From the Encyclical Letter of Pope Pius XII
!Ad cæli Reginam, diei 11 Octobris 1954
From the documents of ancient Christianity, from the prayers of the liturgy, from the innate religious sense of the Christian people, from works of art, from all sides we gather witnesses which assert that the Virgin Mother of God excelleth in queenly dignity. And we have set forth the reasons which sacred theology deduces from the treasury of divine faith to confirm the same truth. All these witnesses form a sort of chorus, proclaiming far and wide the supreme queenly honour granted to the Mother of God and man, who is above all created things and exalted over the choirs of Angels to reign in heaven. Thus it is that after mature and thoughtful consideration we have been persuaded that great benefits would flow to the Church if, like a light that illumines more brightly when placed in its stand, this solidly proved truth were to shine out more clearly to all, and so, by Our Apostolic Authority, we decree and institute the feast of Mary, Queen, which is to be celebrated every year on the thirty-first day of May throughout the world.

[Responsory6]
R. A great sign appeared in heaven: 
* A woman clothed with the sun, and the moon was under her feet, and upon her head a crown of twelve stars, alleluia. 
V. Whose Son reigneth forever.
R. A woman clothed with the sun, and the moon was under her feet, and upon her head a crown of twelve stars, alleluia. 
&Gloria
R. A woman clothed with the sun, and the moon was under her feet, and upon her head a crown of twelve stars, alleluia.

[Lectio7]
From the Holy Gospel according to Luke
!Luke 1:26-33
In that time: In the sixth month, the angel Gabriel was sent from God into a city of Galilee, called Nazareth, to a virgin espoused to a man whose name was Joseph, of the house of David; and the virgin's name was Mary. And so on.
_
Homily of St. Bonaventure, Bishop
!Sermon on the Royal Dignity of the Blessed Virgin Mary
The Blessed Virgin Mary is the Mother of the great King by reason of a noble kind of conception, according to the message given her by the Angel. Behold, he said, thou shalt conceive and shalt bring forth a son; and again, the Lord God will give him the throne of David his father, and he shall be king over the house of Jacob forever, and of his kingdom there shall be no end. This is as if to say in so many words, Thou wilt conceive and bear a son who is King, eternally reigning on the royal throne, and as Queen thou wilt be seated on the royal throne. For if it becometh a son to give honour to his mother, it is also fitting that he share his royal throne with her; and so the Virgin Mary, because she conceived him on whose thigh was written, King of kings and Lord of lords, was Queen not only of earth but also of heaven as soon as she conceived the Son of God. This is indicated in the Apocalypse where it saith: A great sign appeared in heaven: a woman clothed with the sun, and the moon was under her feet, and upon her head a crown of twelve stars.

[Responsory7]
R. Behold a Virgin shall conceive and bear a Son, 
* And his name shall be called Wonderful, God, the Mighty One, alleluia. 
V. He shall sit upon the throne of David, and reign over his kingdom forever.
R. And his name shall be called Wonderful, God, the Mighty One, alleluia. 

[Lectio8]
Mary the Queen outshineth all others in glory, as the Prophet clearly showeth in the Psalm which particularly concerns Christ and the Virgin Mary. It first saith of Christ: Thy throne, O God, standeth forever and ever, and shortly thereafter of the Virgin: The Queen taketh her place at thy right hand, that is, in the position of highest blessedness, for it referreth to glory of soul. It continueth: In garments of gold, by which is meant the clothing of glorious immortality which was proper to the Virgin in her Assumption. For it could not be that the garment which clothed Christ, the garment completely sanctified on earth by the incarnate Word, should be the food of worms. As it was fitting for Christ to grant the fullness of grace to his Mother at her Conception, so was it fitting that he grant her the fullness of glory at her Assumption. And so we are to hold that the Virgin, glorious in soul and body, is enthroned next to her Son.

[Responsory8]
R. Thou hast been exalted, holy Mother of God, 
* Over the choirs of Angels, to reign in heaven, alleluia. 
V. Intercede for us with the Lord Jesus Christ.
R. Over the choirs of Angels, to reign in heaven, alleluia.
&Gloria
R. Over the choirs of Angels, to reign in heaven, alleluia.

[Lectio9]
Mary the Queen is also the distributrix of grace. This is indicated in the book of Esther, where it is said: The little spring which grew into a river and was turned into a light and into the sun. The Virgin Mary, under the type of Esther, is compared to the outpouring of a spring and of light, because of the diffusion of grace for two uses, that is, for action and for contemplation. For the grace of God, which is a healing for the human race, descendeth to us through her as if through an aqueduct, since the dispensing of grace is attributed to the Virgin not as to its beginning, but because of her position through merit. By position the Virgin Mary is a most excellent Queen towards her people: she obtaineth forgiveness, overcometh strife, distributeth grace, and thereby she leadeth them to glory.
&teDeum

[Versum 2]
V. The Virgin Mary ascended to heaven, alleluia.
R. With Christ she reigns for ever, alleluia.

[Ant 2]
O worthy Queen of the world, * Mary ever-Virgin, intercede for our peace and salvation, thou who gave birth to Christ the Lord, the Saviour of all, alleluia.

[Commemoratio 2]
!Commemoration of S. Petronilla, Virgin
Ant. The kingdom of heaven is like unto a merchantman * seeking goodly pearls, who, when he had found one pearl of great price, went and sold all that he had, and bought it, alleluia.
_
V. Grace is poured into thy lips, alleluia.
R. Therefore God hath blessed thee for ever, alleluia.
_
$Oremus
Hear us, O God, our saviour, that we who are gladdened by the Festival of blessed Virgin Petronille may learn from it piety and devotion.
$Per Dominum

[Lectio Prima]
!Sir 24:30-31
v. He that hearkeneth to me, shall not be confounded: and they that work by me, shall not sin. They that explain me shall have life everlasting.

[Responsory Tertia]
R.br. Hail, Queen of mercy, * Alleluia, alleluia.
R. Hail, Queen of mercy, * Alleluia, alleluia.
V. Of whom was born Christ, our King.
R. Alleluia, alleluia.
&Gloria
R. Hail, Queen of mercy, * Alleluia, alleluia.
_
V. There stood by the cross of Jesus his Mother, alleluia.
R. Sharing in his passion, the Queen of the whole world, alleluia.

[Capitulum Sexta]
!Sir 24:9-11
v. In all the earth I stood and in every people, and in every nation I have had the chief rule, And by my power I have trodden under my feet the hearts of all the high and low.
$Deo gratias

[Responsory Sexta]
R.br. There stood by the cross of Jesus his Mother, * Alleluia, alleluia.
R. There stood by the cross of Jesus his Mother, * Alleluia, alleluia.
V. Sharing in his passion, the Queen of the whole world.
R. Alleluia, alleluia.
&Gloria
R. There stood by the cross of Jesus his Mother, * Alleluia, alleluia.
_
V. All generations shall call me blessed, alleluia.
R. Because he that is mighty hath done great things to me, alleluia.

[Responsory Nona]
R.br. All generations shall call me blessed, * Alleluia, alleluia.
R. All generations shall call me blessed, * Alleluia, alleluia.
V. Because he that is mighty hath done great things to me.
R. Alleluia, alleluia.
&Gloria
R. All generations shall call me blessed, * Alleluia, alleluia.
_
V. The Virgin Mary ascended to heaven, alleluia.
R. And with Christ reigns forever, alleluia.

[Versum 3]
V. The Virgin Mary ascended to heaven, alleluia.
R. With Christ she reigns for ever, alleluia.

[Ant 3]
O Blessed Mother, * and Virgin Mary undefiled, glorious Queen of the world, intercede for us with the Lord, alleluia.
