[Rank]
SS. Apostolorum Petri et Pauli;;Duplex I classis cum octava communi;;6.5;;ex C1

[Rank1960]
SS. Apostolorum Petri et Pauli;;Duplex I classis;;6;;ex C1

[Rule]
ex C1;
9 lectiones
Psalmi Dominica
Antiphonas horas
nor commemoratio
Psalm5 Vespera=116
Psalm5 Vespera3=138

[Ant Vespera]
Peter and John * went up together into the Temple at the hour of prayer, being the ninth hour.
Silver and gold have I none, * but such as I have, give I thee.
The Angel said unto Peter: * Cast thy garment about thee, and follow me.
The Lord hath sent * His Angel, and hath delivered me out of the hand of Herod, alleluia.
Thou art Peter * and upon this Rock I will build My Church.

[Capitulum Vespera]
!Acts 12:1-3
v. Herod the King stretched forth his hands, to vex certain of the Church. And he killed James, the brother of John, with the sword. And because he saw it pleased the Jews, he proceeded farther to take Peter also.
$Deo gratias

[Hymnus Vespera]
v. The beauteous light of God's eternal majesty
Streams down in golden rays to grace this holy day
Which crowned the princes of the Apostles' glorious choir,
And unto guilty mortals showed the heavenward way.
_
The teacher of the world and keeper of heaven's gate,
Rome's founders twain and rulers too of every land,
Triumphant over death by sword and shameful cross,
With laurel crowned are gathered to the eternal band.
_
O happy Rome! who in thy martyr princes' blood,
A twofold stream, art washed and doubly sanctified.
All earthly beauty thou alone outshinest far,
Empurpled by their outpoured life-blood's glorious tide.
_
All honour, power, and everlasting jubilee
To him who all things made and governs here below,
To God in essence One, and yet in persons Three,
Both now and ever, while unending ages flow.
Amen.

[Oratio]
O God, Who didst hallow this day by the Testifying of thine Holy Apostles Peter and Paul, grant unto thy Church, whose foundations Thou wast pleased to lay by their hands, the grace always in all things to remain faithful to their teaching.
$Per Dominum

[Lectio1]
Lesson from the Acts of the Apostles
!Acts 3:1-5
1 Now Peter and John went up into the temple at the ninth hour of prayer.
2 And a certain man who was lame from his mother's womb, was carried: whom they laid every day at the gate of the temple, which is called Beautiful, that he might ask alms of them that went into the temple.
3 He, when he had seen Peter and John about to go into the temple, asked to receive an alms.
4 But Peter with John fastening his eyes upon him, said: Look upon us.
5 But he looked earnestly upon them, hoping that he should receive something of them.

[Lectio2]
!Acts 3:6-10
6 But Peter said: Silver and gold I have none; but what I have, I give thee: In the name of Jesus Christ of Nazareth, arise, and walk.
7 And taking him by the right hand, he lifted him up, and forthwith his feet and soles received strength.
8 And he leaping up, stood, and walked, and went in with them into the temple, walking, and leaping, and praising God.
9 And all the people saw him walking and praising God.
10 And they knew him, that it was he who sat begging alms at the Beautiful gate of the temple: and they were filled with wonder and amazement at that which had happened to him.

[Lectio3]
!Acts 3:11-16
11 And as he held Peter and John, all the people ran to them to the porch which is called Solomon's, greatly wondering.
12 But Peter seeing, made answer to the people: Ye men of Israel, why wonder you at this? or why look you upon us, as if by our strength or power we had made this man to walk?
13 The God of Abraham, and the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob, the God of our fathers, hath glorified his Son Jesus, whom you indeed delivered up and denied before the face of Pilate, when he judged he should be released.
14 But you denied the Holy One and the Just, and desired a murderer to be granted unto you.
15 But the author of life you killed, whom God hath raised from the dead, of which we are witnesses.
16 And in the faith of his name, this man, whom you have seen and known, hath his name strengthened; and the faith which is by him, hath given this perfect soundness in the sight of you all.

[Lectio4]
From the Sermons of Pope St. Leo the Great
!First for the Birthday of the Holy Apostles Peter and Paul
Dearly beloved brethren, in the joy of all the holy Feast-days the whole world is partaker. There is but one love of God, and whatsoever is solemnly called to memory, if it hath been done for the salvation of all, must needs be worth the honour of a joyful memorial at the hands of all. Nevertheless, this feast which we are keeping today, besides that world-wide worship which it doth of right get throughout all the earth, doth deserve from this city of ours an outburst of gladness altogether special and our own. In this place it was that the two chiefest of the Apostles did so right gloriously finish their race. And upon this day whereon they lifted up that their last testimony, let it be in this place that the memory thereof receiveth the chiefest of jubilant celebrations. O Rome, these twain are the men who brought the light of the Gospel of Christ to shine upon thee! These are they by whom thou, from being the teacher of lies, wast turned into a learner of the truth.

[Responsory4]
R. Lord, if it be Thou, bid me come unto thee on the water;
* And Jesus stretched forth His Hand, and caught him, and said unto him: O thou of little faith, wherefore didst thou doubt?
V. But when he saw the wind boisterous, he was afraid and, beginning to sink, he cried, saying: Lord, save me!
R. And Jesus stretched forth His Hand, and caught him, and said unto him: O thou of little faith, wherefore didst thou doubt?

[Lectio5]
These twain be thy fathers, these be in good sooth thy shepherds, these twain be they who laid for thee, as touching the kingdom of heaven, better and happier foundations, than did they that first planned thine earthly ramparts, wherefrom he that gave thee thy name took occasion to pollute thee with a brother's blood. These are they who have set on thine head this thy glorious crown, that thou art become an holy nation, a chosen people, a city both Priestly and Kingly, whom the Sacred Throne of blessed Peter hath exalted till thou art become the Lady of the world, unto whom the world-wide love for God hath conceded a broader lordship than is the possession of any mere earthly empire. Thou wast once waxen great by victories, until thy power was spread haughtily over land and sea, but thy power was narrower then which the toils of war had won for thee, than that thou now hast which hath been laid at thy feet by the peace of Christ.

[Responsory5]
R. Arise, O Peter! Cast thy garment about thee, gird thee with strength for the saving of the nations.
* The chains are fallen off from thine hands.
V. The Angel of the Lord came upon him, and a light shined in the prison and he smote Peter on the side and raised him up, saying: Arise up quickly.
R. The chains are fallen off from thine hands.

[Lectio6]
It well suited for the doing of the work which God had decreed that the multitude of kingdoms should be bound together under one rule, and that so the universal preaching of the Gospel should find easier entry into all peoples, since all were governed by the empire of one city. But this city, knowing not Him, Who had been pleased to make her great, used her lordship over almost all nations to make herself the minister of all their falsehoods and seemed to herself exceeding godly because there was no false god whom she rejected. But the tighter that Satan had bound her, the more wondrous was the work of Christ in setting her free.

[Responsory6]
@Sancti/02-22:Responsory4
&Gloria
R. Therefore unto thee hath He given the keys of the kingdom of heaven.

[Lectio7]
From the Holy Gospel according to Matthew
!Matt 16:13-19
At that time: Jesus came into the coasts of Caesarea Philippi, and He asked His disciples, saying: Who do men say that I, the Son of man, am? And so on.
_
Homily by St. Jerome, Priest (at Bethlehem.)
!Bk. iii Comment. on Matth. xvi
Who do men say that I, the Son of man, am? This question is well put, for they who speak of Him as the Son of man are men, while they that know of Him that He is God are called not men but gods. And they said: Some say that Thou art John the Baptist, some, Elias. I marvel that some commentators have thought it worth their while to search into the origin of each of these blunders, and to engage in a discussion of weary length as to why some thought that our Lord Jesus Christ was John the Baptist, some, Elias and others, Jeremias, or one of the Prophets. Their blunders concerning Elias and Jeremias were but of a piece with Herod's concerning John the Baptist It is John, whom I beheaded he is risen from the dead and therefore mighty works do show forth themselves in him. (Mark vi. 16, 14.)

[Responsory7]
R. Peter, I have prayed for thee, that thy faith fail not;
* And when thou art converted, strengthen thy brethren.
V. Flesh and blood hath not revealed it unto thee, but My Father Which is in heaven.
R. And when thou art converted, strengthen thy brethren.

[Lectio8]
But who say ye that I am? Mark, discreet reader, from the context, that a distinction is here drawn between the Apostles and mere men. The Apostles are called gods. Who, asketh the Lord, do men say that I am, but, on the other hand, who say ye that I am? They, being but men, deal in human speculations, but ye that are gods, who be ye persuaded that I am. And then Peter, as the representative of all the Apostles, uttered the testimony: Thou art the Christ, the Son of the living God. He calleth God living, to mark the difference between Him and all other that be called gods, and who are indeed dead.

[Responsory8]
@Sancti/02-22:Responsory7
&Gloria
R. And I say unto thee, that thou art Peter, and upon this rock I will build My Church.

[Lectio9]
And Jesus answered and said unto him: Blessed art thou, Simon Bar-Jona. The Apostle having testified of the Lord, the Lord in turn testifieth of the Apostle. Peter had said: Thou art the Christ, the Son of the living God, and he received, in return for that his testimony to the truth, the words: Blessed art thou, Simon Bar-Jona. Why, blessed? For flesh and blood hath not revealed it unto thee, but My Father. What flesh and blood could not reveal, the grace of the Holy Ghost had revealed. Meet for him therefore, because of his confession, is his name, as the name of one who hath revelation from the Holy Ghost, and therefore is called His son. Bar-Jona is, being interpreted, The-son-of-the-Dove.
&teDeum

[Hymnus Laudes]
v. Peter, blest shepherd, hearken to our cry,
And with a word unloose our guilty chain;
Thou! who hast power to ope the gates on high
To men below, and power to shut them fast again.
_
Lead us, great teacher Paul, in wisdom's ways,
And lift our hearts with thine to heaven's high throne;
Till faith beholds the clear meridian blaze;
And sunlike in the soul reigns charity alone.
_
Praise, blessing, majesty, through endless days,
Be to the Trinity immortal given;
Who in pure unity profoundly sways
Eternally alike all things in earth and heaven.
Amen.

[Lectio Prima]
!Acts 12:11
v. And when Peter was come to himself, he said Now I know of a surety that the Lord hath sent His Angel, and hath delivered me out of the hand of Herod, and from all the expectation of the people of the Jews.

[Capitulum Sexta]
!Acts 12:5
v. Peter therefore was kept in prison. But prayer was made without ceasing of the Church unto God for him.
$Deo gratias

[Ant 3]
This is the day * whereon Simon Peter went up upon the gibbet of the cross, alleluia; this day did he, that holdeth the keys of the kingdom, depart hence with joy to be with Christ; this day did the Apostle Paul, the light of the whole world, bow his head, and for Christ's name's sake receive the crown of his testimony. Alleluia.

[Octava 1]
!Commemoration of the Octave of the Holy Apostles Peter and Paul
Ant. Glorious princes of the Earth * as in this life you were honored together, you are not separated by death.
_
V. Thou shalt make them princes over all the earth.
R. They shall remember thy name, O Lord.
_
$Oremus
O God, Who didst hallow this day by the Testifying of thine Holy Apostles Peter and Paul, grant unto thy Church, whose foundations Thou wast pleased to lay by their hands, the grace always in all things to remain faithful to their teaching.
$Per Dominum

[Octava 2]
!Commemoration of the Octave of the Holy Apostles Peter and Paul
Ant. Glorious princes of the Earth, as in this life you were honored together, you are not separated by death.
_
V. Their sound hath gone forth into all the earth.
R. And their words unto the ends of the world.
_
$Oremus.
O God, Who didst hallow this day by the Testifying of thine Holy Apostles Peter and Paul, grant unto thy Church, whose foundations Thou wast pleased to lay by their hands, the grace always in all things to remain faithful to their teaching.
$Per Dominum
