[Rank]
Pretiosissimi Sanguinis Domini Nostri Jesu Christi;;Duplex I classis;;6;;

[Rule]
proprium
9 lectiones
Psalmi Dominica
Antiphonas horas
Psalm5 Vespera=116
Psalm5 Vespera3=147
Festum Domini

[Ant Vespera]
Who is this that * cometh from Edom, with dyed garments from Bozrah? this, that is glorious in His apparel?
I that speak * in righteousness, mighty to save.
He was clothed * with a vesture dipped in blood, and His name is called The Word of God.
Wherefore art Thou * red in thine apparel, and thy garments like him that treadeth in the wine-vat?
I have trodden * the wine-press alone, and of the people there was none with Me.

[Capitulum Vespera]
!Heb 9:11-12
v. Brethren, Christ being come an High Priest of good things to come, by a greater and more perfect tabernacle, not made with hands, that is to say, not of this building neither by the blood of goats and calves, but by His Own Blood, He entered in once into the Holy Place, having obtained eternal redemption.
$Deo gratias

[Hymnus Vespera]
v. With glad and joyous strains now let each street resound,
And let the laurel wreath each Christian brow entwine;
With torches waving bright, let old and young go forth,
And swell the train in solemn line.
_
Whilst we with bitter tears, with sighs and grief profound,
Wail o'er the saving blood, poured forth upon the tree,
Oh, deeply let us muse, and count the heavy price,
Which Christ hath paid to make us free.
_
The primal man of old, who fell by serpent's guile,
Brought death and many woes upon his fallen race;
But our new Adam, Christ, new life unto us gave,
And brought to all ne'er-ending grace.
_
To heaven's highest height, the wailing cry went up
Of him, who hung in pain, God's own eternal Son;
His saving, priceless blood, his Father's wrath appeased,
And for his sons full pardon won.
_
Whoe'er in that pure blood his guilty soul shall wash,
Shall from his stains be freed—be made as roses bright—
Shall vie with angels pure, shall please his King and Lord,
And precious shine in his glad sight.
_
Oh, from the path of right ne'er let thy steps depart,
But haste thee to the goal in virtue's peaceful ways;
thy God who reigns on high will e'er direct thy steps,
And crown thy deeds with blissful days.
_
Father of all things made, to us propitious be,
For whom thy own dear Son, his saving blood did spill;
O Holy Spirit, grant the souls by thee refreshed
Eternal bliss may ever fill.
Amen.

[Versum 1]
V. Being justified by the Blood of Christ.
R. We shall be saved from wrath through Him.

[Ant 1]
Ye are come * unto Mount Sion and unto the city of the living God, the heavenly Jerusalem, and to Jesus the Mediator of the New Covenant, and to the Blood of sprinkling That speaketh better things than that of Abel.

[Oratio]
Almighty, eternal God, Who made thy only-begotten Son the Redeemer of the world, and willed to be reconciled by His Blood, grant us, we beseech thee, so to worship in this sacred rite the price of our salvation, and to be so protected by its power against the evils of the present life on earth, that we may enjoy its everlasting fruit in heaven.
$Per eumdem

[Invit]
Christ, the Son of God, hath redeemed us by His Own Blood, * O come, let us worship Him.

[Hymnus Matutinum]
v. He who once, in righteous vengeance,
Whelmed the world beneath the flood,
Once again in mercy cleansed it
With the stream of his own blood,
Coming from his throne on high
On the painful cross to die.
_
Blest with this all-saving shower,
Earth her beauty straight resumed;
In the place of thorns and briars,
Myrtles sprang, and roses bloomed:
Bitter wormwood of the waste
Into honey changed its taste.
_
Scorpions ceased; the slimy serpent
Laid his deadly poison by;
Savage beasts of cruel instinct
Lost their wild ferocity;
Welcoming the gentle reign
Of the Lamb for sinners slain.
_
Oh, the wisdom of th' eternal!
Oh, its depth and height divine!
Oh, the sweetness of that mercy
Which in Jesus Christ doth shine!
Slaves we were condemned to die!
Our King pays the penalty!
_
When before the Judge we tremble,
Conscious of his broken laws,
May this blood, in that dread hour,
Cry aloud, and plead our cause;
Bid our guilty terrors cease,
Be our pardon and our peace.
_
Prince and author of salvation!
Lord of majesty supreme!
Jesu, praise to thee be given
By the world thou didst redeem;
Who with the Father and the Spirit,
Reignest in eternal merit.
Amen.

[Ant Matutinum]
And when eight days were accomplished * for the circumcising of the child, His Name was called Jesus.;;2
And being in an agony * He prayed more earnestly, and His Sweat was as it were great drops of Blood falling down to the ground.;;3
Judas, which had betrayed Him, * repented himself, and brought again the thirty pieces of silver, saying: I have sinned, in that I have betrayed the innocent Blood.;;15
V. Lord, Thou hast redeemed us.
R. By thy Blood.
Pilate, * willing to content the people, delivered Jesus, when he had scourged Him, to be crucified.;;22
When Pilate saw * that he could prevail nothing, he took water, and washed his hands before the multitude, saying: I am innocent of the Blood of this just Person.;;29
Then answered * all the people and said: His Blood be on us, and on our children.;;63
V. The blood of Jesus Christ, the Son of God.
R. Cleanseth us from all sin.
Then came Jesus forth, * wearing the crown of thorns, and the purple robe. And Pilate saith unto them: Behold the Man.;;73
And He, bearing His Cross, * went forth into a place called the place of a Skull, where they crucified Him.;;87
But when they came to Jesus, and saw that He was dead already, * they brake not His legs but one of the soldiers with a spear pierced His Side, and forth with came thereout Blood and Water.;;93
V. Christ loved us.
R. And washed us from our sins in His Own Blood.

[Lectio1]
Lesson from the letter of St. Paul the Apostle to the Hebrews
!Heb 9:11-15
11 But Christ, being come an high priest of the good things to come, by a greater and more perfect tabernacle not made with hand, that is, not of this creation:
12 Neither by the blood of goats, or of calves, but by his own blood, entered once into the holies, having obtained eternal redemption.
13 For if the blood of goats and of oxen, and the ashes of an heifer being sprinkled, sanctify such as are defiled, to the cleansing of the flesh:
14 How much more shall the blood of Christ, who by the Holy Ghost offered himself unspotted unto God, cleanse our conscience from dead works, to serve the living God?
15 And therefore he is the mediator of the new testament: that by means of his death, for the redemption of those transgressions, which were under the former testament, they that are called may receive the promise of eternal inheritance.

[Responsory1]
R. Jesus also, that He might sanctify the people with His own Blood, suffered without the gate.
* Let us go forth therefore unto Him without the camp, bearing His reproach.
V. Ye have not yet resisted unto blood, striving against sin.
R. Let us go forth therefore unto Him without the gate, bearing His reproach.

[Lectio2]
!Heb 9:16-22
6 For where there is a testament, the death of the testator must of necessity come in.
17 For a testament is of force, after men are dead: otherwise it is as yet of no strength, whilst the testator liveth.
18 Whereupon neither was the first indeed dedicated without blood.
19 For when every commandment of the law had been read by Moses to all the people, he took the blood of calves and goats, with water, and scarlet wool and hyssop, and sprinkled both the book itself and all the people,
20 Saying: This is the blood of the testament, which God hath enjoined unto you.
21 The tabernacle also and all the vessels of the ministry, in like manner, he sprinkled with blood.
22 And almost all things, according to the law, are cleansed with blood: and without shedding of blood there is no remission.

[Responsory2]
R. Moses took the blood, and sprinkled all the people;
* Saying: This is the blood of the Testament which God hath enjoined unto you.
V. Through faith he kept the Passover, and the sprinkling of blood, lest he that destroyed the first-born should touch them.
R. Saying: This is the blood of the Testament which God hath enjoined unto you.

[Lectio3]
!Heb 10:19-24
19 Having therefore, brethren, a confidence in the entering into the holies by the blood of Christ;
20 A new and living way which he hath dedicated for us through the veil, that is to say, his flesh,
21 And a high priest over the house of God:
22 Let us draw near with a true heart in fulness of faith, having our hearts sprinkled from an evil conscience, and our bodies washed with clean water.
23 Let us hold fast the confession of our hope without wavering (for he is faithful that hath promised),
24 And let us consider one another, to provoke unto charity and to good works:

[Responsory3]
R. Ye, who sometimes were far off, are made nigh by the Blood of Christ.
* For He is our Peace, Who hath made both one.
V. It pleased [the Father that in Him should all fulness dwell, and,] having made peace through the Blood of His Cross, by Him to reconcile all things unto Himself, [by Him, I say,] whether they be things in earth or things in heaven.
R. For He is our Peace, Who hath made both one.
&Gloria
R. For He is our Peace, Who hath made both one.

[Lectio4]
From the Sermons of St. John Chrysostom, Archbishop of Constantinople
!Homily 84 in John, cap. 19
Wouldest thou hear the power of the Blood of Christ? Then let us look at the figure thereof, let us call to mind the old type, and tell the story written in the ancient Scriptures. The Egyptians would not let God take away Israel His firstborn, And Moses said: Thus saith the Lord: About midnight will I go out into the midst of Egypt, and all the first-born in the land of Egypt shall die, from the first-born of Pharaoh that sitteth upon his throne unto the first-born of the maid-servant that is behind the mill, and all the first-born of beasts. And there shall be a great cry throughout all the land of Egypt, such as there was none like it, nor shall be like it any more. But against any of the children of Israel shall not a dog move his tongue, against man or beast that ye may know how that the Lord hath put a difference between the Egyptians and Israel. (Ex. xi. 4-7.) Then Moses called for all the elders of Israel, and said unto them: Draw out and take you a lamb according to your families and kill the Passover. And ye shall take a bunch of hyssop and dip it in the blood that is in the basin, and strike the lintel and the two side-posts with the blood. and when He seeth the blood upon the lintel and on the two side-posts, the Lord will pass over the door, and will not suffer the destroyer to come in unto your houses to smite you. (xii. 21-23.) And could the blood of a sheep save a man Yea, in good sooth not because it was blood, but because it represented in a figure the Blood of the Lord.

[Responsory4]
R. Pass the time of your sojourning here in fear, forasmuch as:
* Ye know that ye were not redeemed with corruptible things, as silver and gold
V. But with the Precious Blood of Christ, as of a lamb without spot.
R. Ye know that ye were not redeemed with corruptible things, as silver and gold.

[Lectio5]
The statues of monarchs, mindless and speechless images though they be, have sometimes been an helpful refuge to men endowed with soul and reason, not because they are works of the brazier's skill, but because the likeness they bear is a King's. And just so did this unconscious blood deliver the lives of men, not because it was blood, but because it foreshadowed the shedding of the Blood of Jesus. On that night in Egypt, when the destroying Angel saw the blood upon the lintel and on the two side-posts, he passed over the door, and came not in unto the house. Even so now much more will the destroyer of souls flee away when he seeth, not the lintel and the two side-posts sprinkled with the blood of a lamb, but the mouth of the faithful Christian, the living dwelling of the Holy Ghost, shining with the blood of the True Messiah. If the Angel let the type be, how shall not the enemy quail before the Reality? Wouldest thou hear more of the power of that Blood I am willing. Consider from what source it welleth, from what fountain it springeth. Its fountain is the Heart of the Lord, pierced for us upon the Cross. Then came the soldiers, and brake the legs of the first, and of the other which was crucified with Him but when they came to Jesus, and saw that He was dead already, they brake not His Legs, but one of the soldiers with a spear pierced His Side, and forthwith came thereout Blood and Water, (John xix, 32-34,) whereof One is a figure of Baptism, and the other of the Sacrament (of the Altar.) One of the soldiers with a spear pierced His Side the veil of the Temple of His Body was rent in twain. (John ii. 19-21, Matth. xxvii. 51.) O how glorious is the treasure that is laid open to me therein How noble the riches that it is my joy there to have found!

[Responsory5]
R. Ye are bought with a great price, therefore:
* Glorify God and bear Him in your body.
V. Ye are bought with a price be not ye the servants of men.
R. Glorify God and bear Him in your body.

[Lectio6]
And so was it done concerning that Lamb: the Jews killed a sheep, and I have learned the value of the sacrament. From the Side flowed forth Blood and Water. I would not, O my hearer, that thou shouldest pass by the depths of such a mystery as this without pausing; for I have yet a mystic and mysterious discourse to deliver. I have said that the Water and Blood shewed forth symbolically baptism and the sacraments. For from these, holy Church was founded by the laver of regeneration, and the renovation of the Holy Ghost. Through baptism, I say, and through the sacraments, which seem to have issued from his Side. It was therefore out of the Side of Christ that the Church was created, just as it was out of the side of Adam that Eve was raised up to be his bride. This is the reason why Paul saith, no doubt in allusion to his Side: We are members of his Body, and of his bones. For even as God made the woman Eve out of the rib which he had taken out of the side of Adam, so hath Christ made the Church out of the Blood and Water which he made to flow for us out of his own Side. -On the occasion of the nineteenth centenary of the accomplishment of the redemption of mankind, as a fitting celebration of this ineffable blessing, Pope Pius XI decreed an extraordinary Jubilee. During that year the Supreme Pontiff, wishing that the fruits of the Precious Blood of Christ, the Lamb without spot, might redound more abundantly upon mankind and that the minds of the faithful be impressed with more vivid recollections of this same Blood as the price of their redemption, elevated the Feast of the Most Precious Blood of our Lord Jesus Christ to the rank of a double of the first class, to be celebrated as such every year by the universal Church.

[Responsory6]
R. God commendeth His love toward us:
* In that, while we were yet sinners, in due time Christ died for us.
V. Much more then being now justified by His Blood, we shall be saved from wrath through Him.
R. In that, while we were yet sinners, in due time Christ died for us.
&Gloria
R. In that, while we were yet sinners, in due time Christ died for us.

[Lectio7]
From the Holy Gospel according to John
!John 19:30-35
At that time: When Jesus had received the vinegar, He said: It is finished. And He bowed His Head, and gave up the ghost. And so on.
_
Homily by St. Augustine, Bishop of Hippo
!120th Tract on John
One of the soldiers with a spear pierced His Side, and forthwith came thereout Blood and Water. The Evangelist speaketh carefully. He saith not that he smote the Side, nor yet that he wounded It, nor yet anything else, but pierced pierced It, to fling wide the entrance unto life, whence flow the Sacraments of the Church, those Sacraments without which there is no entrance unto the life which is life indeed. That Blood which was shed there was shed for the remission of sins, that Water is the water that mantleth in the cup of salvation. Therein are we washed, and thereof do we drink. Of this was it a type when it was said unto Noah: The door of the ark shalt thou set in the side thereof and of every living thing of all flesh shalt thou bring into the ark to keep them alive. (Gen. vi. 16, 19.) A figure this of the Church. Thus was it that the first woman was made from the side of her husband while he slept, and she was called (Eve, which is, being interpreted,) Life, because she was the mother of all living. (Gen. iii. 20.) This name set forth a great good, before it became associated with the bitter fruit of a great evil. And here we have the Second Adam bowing His Head, and the deep sleep of death falling upon Him upon the Cross, and He sleepeth, that the Lord God may take a thing out of His side, and may make thereof a wife for Him. O what a death was His, which quickeneth the dead! What is cleaner than His Blood? What more health-giving than His wounding?

[Responsory7]
R. This is He That came by Water and Blood, even Jesus Christ;
* Not by Water only, but by Water and Blood.
V. In that day there shall be a fountain opened to the house of David and to the inhabitants of Jerusalem, for sin and for uncleanness.
R. Not by Water only, but by Water and Blood.

[Lectio8]
!Enarr. in Psalm 95, n. 5
Then were being held bondsmen to the devil, slaves to evil spirits. But they have been redeemed from that bondage. They had been able to sell themselves, but they were not able to redeem themselves. A Redeemer came and paid the price for them. He shed His Blood, and at that cost bought the world. Ye ask what He bought Look what He paid, and ye shall see what He bought. Christ's Blood was the price. What is His Blood worth? What, but the whole world What but all men They are very unthankful for His redemption, or very proud, who say that It is only precious enough to buy the Africans, or that they themselves are so precious that It was shed only for them. Let there be an end to such conceit, an end to such vainglory. What He paid, He paid for all.

[Responsory8]
R. God hath predestinated us unto the adoption of children by Jesus Christ;
* In Whom we have redemption through His Blood.
V. The forgiveness of sins, according to the riches of His grace, wherein He hath abounded toward us.
R. In Whom we have redemption through His Blood.
&Gloria
R. In Whom we have redemption through His Blood.

[Lectio9]
!Sermon 31, alias 344
That Blood was his own, and thereby he redeemed us. Yea, it was to this end that he took Flesh and Blood, namely that he might shed his Blood in order to redeem us. If thou wilt accept it, the Blood of thy Lord was given for thee. If thou wilt not accept it, it was not given for thee. For perchance thou sayest: My God had Blood, with which he redeemed me, but now since he hath suffered, he hath given it all; what hath remained to him, that he may also give any of it for me? This is a great thing, because he gave once, and he gave for all. The Blood of Christ is salvation to him that doth accept it, punishment to him that doth not accept it. Why therefore dost thou hesitate to be set free from the second death, thou who dost not wish to die? By this thou art set free, if thou art willing to take up thy Cross, and follow the Lord; for he took up his Cross and sought his servant.
&teDeum

[Ant Laudes]
What are these * which are arrayed in white robes? And whence came they?
These are they which came out of great tribulation, * and have washed their robes and made them white in the Blood of the Lamb.
Therefore are they before the throne of God, * and serve Him day and night.
And they overcame the dragon * by the Blood of the Lamb, and by the word of their testimony.
Blessed are they * that wash their robes in the Blood of the Lamb.

[Hymnus Laudes]
v. Hail, holy wounds of Jesus, hail,
Sweet pledges of the saving rood,
Whence flow the streams that never fail,
The purple streams of his dear blood.
_
Brighter than brightest stars ye show,
Than sweetest rose your scent more rare,
No Indian gem may match your glow,
No honey's taste with yours compare.
_
Portals ye are to that dear home
Wherein our wearied souls may hide,
Whereto no angry foe can come,
The heart of Jesus crucified.
_
What countless stripes our Jesus bore,
All naked left in Pilate's hall!
From his torn flesh how red a shower
Did round his sacred person fall!
_
His beauteous brow, oh, shame and grief,
By the sharp thorny crown is riven;
Through hands and feet, without relief,
The cruel nails are rudely driven.
_
But when for our poor sakes he died,
A willing priest by love subdued,
The soldier's lance transfixed his side,
Forth flowed the water and the blood.
_
In full atonement of our guilt,
Careless of self, the Saviour trod—
E'en till his heart's best blood was spilt—
The wine-press of the wrath of God.
_
Come, bathe you in the healing flood,
All ye who mourn, by sin opprest;
Your only hope is Jesus' blood,
His sacred heart your only rest.
_
All praise to him, the Eternal Son,
At God's right hand enthroned above,
Whose blood our full redemption won,
Whose Spirit seals the gift of love.
Amen.

[Versum 2]
V. Being justified by the Blood of Christ.
R. We shall be saved from wrath through Him.

[Ant 2]
The blood shall be * to you for a token, saith the Lord, and when I see the Blood I will pass over you, and the plague shall not be upon you to destroy you.

[Versum Prima]
Thou, who redeemed us with your blood.

[Lectio Prima]
!Heb 9:19-20
v. Moses he took the blood of calves and goats, with water, and scarlet wool and hyssop, and sprinkled both the book itself and all the people, saying: This is the blood of the testament, which God hath enjoined unto you.

[Responsory Tertia]
R.br. Lord, Thou hast redeemed us * by thy Blood.
R. Lord, Thou hast redeemed us * by thy Blood.
V. Out of every kindred, and tongue, and people.
R. By thy Blood.
&Gloria
R. Lord, Thou hast redeemed us * by thy Blood.
_
V. The Blood of Jesus Christ, the Son of God
R. Cleanseth us from all sin.

[Capitulum Sexta]
!Heb 9:13-14
v. If the blood of bulls and of goats, and the ashes of an heifer, sprinkling the unclean, sanctifieth to the purifying of the flesh, how much more shall the Blood of Christ, Who through the Holy Spirit offered Himself without spot to God, purge our conscience from dead works, to serve the living God?
$Deo gratias

[Responsory Sexta]
R.br. The Blood of Jesus Christ, the Son of God, * cleanseth us.
R. The Blood of Jesus Christ, the Son of God, * cleanseth us.
V. From all sin.
R. Cleanseth us.
&Gloria
R. The Blood of Jesus Christ, the Son of God, * cleanseth us.
_
V. Christ loved us.
R. And washed us from our sins in His Own Blood.

[Responsory Nona]
R.br. Christ loved us, and washed us from our sins * in His Own Blood.
R. Christ loved us, and washed us from our sins * in His Own Blood.
V. And hath made us unto our God and Father a kingdom and priests.
R. In His Own Blood.
&Gloria
R. Christ loved us, and washed us from our sins * in His Own Blood.
_
V. Being justified by the Blood of Christ.
R. We shall be saved from wrath through Him.

[Versum 3]
V. We therefore pray thee, help thy servants.
R. Whom thou hast redeemed with thy precious blood.

[Ant 3]
This day shall be * unto you for a memorial, and ye shall keep it a Feast to the Lord throughout your generations; ye shall keep it a Feast by an ordinance for ever.
