[Officium]
S. Symphorosa with her Seven Sons, Martyrs

[Name]
Symphorosa and her sons

[Lectio2]
Symphorosa, a native of Tivoli, was the wife of the martyr Getulius. She bore him seven sons, Crescentius, Julian, Nemesius, Primitivus, Justin, Stacteus, and Eugenius. Under the Emperor Adrian, they were all arrested, together with her, on account of their profession of the Christian faith. Their piety was tried by many different tortures, and, on their remaining constant, the mother, who had taught her sons, led the way to martyrdom. She was thrown into the river, with a huge stone tied round her neck. Her brother Eugenius searched for her body and gave it burial.

[Lectio3]
The next day, which was the 15th of the Calends of August, the Seven Brothers were tied to stakes and put to death in different ways. Crescentius had his throat transfixed; Julian was wounded in the breast; Nemesius was pierced in the heart, and Primitivus in the stomach; Justin was cut to pieces, limb by limb; Stactus was pierced with darts, and Eugenius was cut in two from the breast. Thus eight victims were immolated. Their bodies were thrown into a deep pit on the Tiburtian Way, nine miles from Rome; but they were afterwards translated into the city and buried in the Church of “the holy Michael in the fish-market.”

[Lectio93] (rubrica 1888 aut rubrica 1906 aut rubrica divino)
Symphorosa was a woman of Tivoli, the wife of the martyr Getulius, unto whom she bore seven sons, named respectively, Crescentius, Julian, Nemesius, Primitivus, Justin, Stacteus, and Eugene, all of whom were arrested along with their mother, in the reign of the Emperor Hadrian, for professing the Christian faith. Their love was tried by many and diverse torments, and their mother who had taught them their religion, was their leader to martyrdom. A stone was tied round her neck and she was thrown into the river. Her body was found and buried by her brother Eugene. The next day, being the 18th of July, the seven brethren were tied each to a stake, and all put to death in diverse ways. Crescentius was stabbed in the throat, Julian in the breast, Nemesius in the heart, and Primitivus in the navel. Justin was hacked limb from limb. Stacteus was shot to death with darts. Eugene was cut into two parts across his breast, (from the head downwards.) Thus were these eight sacrifices of sweet savour offered up to God. Their bodies were thrown into a deep pit, on the road between Rome and Tivoli, at the ninth milestone from Rome, but were afterwards brought to Rome and buried in the Church of the Holy Angel-in-the-Fish-market.
&teDeum
