[Rank]
S. Anacleti Papae Martyris;;Semiduplex;;2;;vide C2

[Rule]
vide C2;
9 lectiones
OPapaM=Anacletus;

[Oratio]
God, who year by year dost gladden us by the solemn feast day of thy Blessed Anaclete Martyr and Pontifex, mercifully grant that we who keep his birthday, may ever feel the joyful effects of his protection.
$Per Dominum

[Lectio4]
Anaclete was an Athenian who governed the Church in the time of the Emperor Trajan. He ordained that a Bishop should be consecrated by three Bishops and no less, that clerks should be publicly ordained to Holy Orders by their own Bishop, and that in the Mass, after the Consecration, all should afterwards Communicate. He adorned the grave of Blessed Peter, and ordered a place for burying the Popes in. He held two ordinations in the month of December, wherein he ordained five Priests, three Deacons, and six Bishops. He sat as Pope nine years, three months, and ten days. He received the crown of his testimony, and was buried on the Vatican Hill.

[Lectio5]
From the Exposition of the hundred-and- eighteenth Psalm by St. Ambrose, Bishop of Milan.
! 21st Sermon.
Princes have persecuted me I without a cause; but my heart standeth in awe of thy word.” These are rightly the words of a martyr, who beareth unjustly the torments of the persecutors, who hath robbed no man, who hath violently oppressed no man, who hath shed the blood of no man, who hath imagined to defile the bed of no man, who is debtor to the laws in nothing, and who is punished more grievously than if he were a robber: who speaketh righteousness, and there is none that will hear: who speaketh salvation, and all men fight against him: who is able to say: “When I spoke unto them, they fought against me without a cause.” (Ps. cxix. 7.) They fight against him without a cause, who can lay no sin to his charge; they fight against him as an evildoer, who is by their own acknowledgment righteous: they fight against him as a warlock, who glorieth in the name of the Lord, and who doeth all things well because he doeth all things for God's sake.

[Lectio6]
They fight against him in vain who is accused of ungodliness among the ungodly and the unfaithful, because he teacheth Faith. Verily, him that is fought against without a cause it behoveth to be strong and patient. Wherefore then saith he: My heart standeth in awe of thy word? Awe is the mark of the weak, the timid, and the fearful But there is also a waekness unto salvation, there is a~
fear which is an holy fear. 0 fear the Lord, all ye His Saints. (Ps. xxxiii. 10.) And again: Blessed is the man that feareth the Lord. (Ps. cxi. i.) And wherefore is he blessed? because he delighteth greatly in His commandments.

[Lectio94]
Anacletus was an Athenian who governed the Church in the time of the Emperor Trajan. He ordained that a Bishop should be consecrated by three Bishops and no less, that clerks should be publicly ordained to Holy Orders by their own Bishop, and that in the Mass, after the Consecration, all should afterwards communicate. He adorned the grave of Blessed Peter, and ordered a place for burying the Popes in. He held two ordinations in the month of December, wherein he ordained five Priests, three Deacons, and six Bishops. He sat as Pope nine years, three months, and ten days. He received the crown of his testimony, and was buried on the Vatican Hill.
&teDeum

[Lectio7]
@Commune/C4:Lectio71

[Lectio8]
@Commune/C4:Lectio81

[Lectio9]
@Commune/C4:Lectio91
