[Rank]
S. Hyacinthi Confessoris;;Duplex;;3;;vide C5

[Rule]
vide C5;mtv
9 lectiones

[Oratio]
@Commune/C5::s/N\./Hyacinth/

[Lectio4]
Hyacinth was a Pole, and was born (in the year 1185) of the noble and Christian family (of the Counts of Odrowatz,) in the town of Camien, in the diocese of Wratislaw. He was trained up in learning from his youth, and after studying law and theology, became a Canon of Crakow, where he was eminent above his fellows by the singular godliness of his life and the depth of his learning. Being at Rome, (in 1218,) he was received into the Order of Friars Preachers by the Founder, St. Dominic, himself, and kept in holiness to the end of his life the rule of perfect living which he had learnt from him. He remained always a virgin, and loved modesty, long-suffering, lowliness, self-restraint, and all other good graces as his heritage in the life of a Friar.

[Lectio5]
In the heat of his love for God, he sometimes passed whole nights in pouring forth prayers and chastising his body, to which he never gave rest but in leaning against a stone or lying upon the ground. He was sent back to his own country, and, on the way, founded a very large house of his Order at Friesach and soon afterwards another at Crakow. In other provinces of the kingdom of Poland he founded four others, and it passeth belief what success he had with all kinds of men, by his preaching of the Word of God, and the innocency of his life. Not a day passed wherein he did not display some bright gift of faith, godliness, or innocency.

[Lectio6]
The zeal of this most holy man for the salvation of his neighbors was that which God marked by His greatest miracles. Among these is famous the time when coming to the River Vistula near Wisgrade, and finding it in flood, he crossed it without a boat, drawing over also his three companions standing upon the waves upon his outspread mantle. He led a wonderful life for nearly forty years after his profession, and then foretold to his brethren the day of his death. Upon the very day of the Feast of the Assumption of the Virgin, he finished the recitation of the Office of the Church, received the Sacraments with the utmost reverence, and then with the words, Into thy hands, O Lord, gave up his soul to God in the year of salvation 1257. He was illustrious for miracles even after his death, and Pope Clement VIII. numbered him among the saints.

[Lectio94]
Hyacinth was a Pole, born of noble Christian parents at the villa of Kamin in the Bishopric of Breslau. He was enrolled among the canons of Krakow and excelled them all in his singularly devout way of life and in his learning. At Rome, he was received into the Order of Preachers by its founder, St. Dominic; and to the end of his days, his virginity intact, he held to the perfect rule of life which he had learned from St. Dominic. He was sent back to his own country and built six monasteries of his Order. It is unbelievable how much he accomplished by preaching the word of God and by the innocency of his life, made illustrious by numerous miracles. Among these is this particularly remarkable miracle: he crossed over the river Vistula near Visograd when it was in flood, taking his companions with him, not by boat but on his cloak spread out over the waters. He persevered in his wonderful way of life for nearly forty years after his profession. On the day of the Virgin's Assumption in the year of salvation 1257, he gave up his soul to God. He was numbered among the Saints by Clement VIII.
&teDeum

[Lectio94]
Hyacinth was a Pole, born of noble Christian parents at the villa of Kamin in the Bishopric of Breslau. He was enrolled among the canons of Krakow and excelled them all in his singularly devout way of life and in his learning. At Rome, he was received into the Order of Preachers by its founder, St. Dominic; and to the end of his days, his virginity intact, he held to the perfect rule of life which he had learned from St. Dominic. He was sent back to his own country and built six monasteries of his Order. It is unbelievable how much he accomplished by preaching the word of God and by the innocency of his life, made illustrious by numerous miracles. Among these is this particularly remarkable miracle: he crossed over the river Vistula near Visograd when it was in flood, taking his companions with him, not by boat but on his cloak spread out over the waters. He persevered in his wonderful way of life for nearly forty years after his profession. On the day of the Virgin's Assumption in the year of salvation 1257, he gave up his soul to God. He was numbered among the Saints by Clement VIII.
&teDeum
