[Rank]
In Assumptione Beatae Mariae Virginis;;Duplex I classis cum Octava Communi;;7;;ex C11

[Rule]
ex C11;
9 lectiones
Psalmi Dominica
Antiphonas Horas
Doxology=Nat

[Capitulum Vespera]
!Jdt 13:22-23
v. The Lord hath blessed thee by his power, because by thee he hath brought our enemies to nought. Blessed art thou, O daughter, by the Lord the most high God, above all women upon the earth.
$Deo gratias

[Hymnus Vespera]
v. O Virgin thou, the spirit's fair'st,
Predestined by the will divine,
Within thy sacred womb thou bear'st
His only Son, and also thine.
_
O thou in whom rich grace abounds,
Foretold thou wast to be the foe
Who in her origin confounds
The wicked demon here below.
_
Within thy womb anew Life's made,
The very life by Adam lost
Has been renewed by thee, sweet maid,
Who didst provide the holocaust.
_
Thy will immersed in Jesus' own,
Atoning for the sins of all,
He raises thee to Heaven's throne,
In victory o'er death's dread thrall.
_
In thy great glory burning bright
Exalted nature sings the praise,
And unto beauty's very height,
Dost honor and all glory raise.
_
Triumphant Queen to Heaven borne,
Upon us exiles turn thy sight,
That to the ever-blessed morn
We may be guided by thy light.
_
All honor, laud, and glory be,
O Jesu, Virgin-born to thee;
All glory, as is ever meet
To Father and to Paraclete. 
Amen.

[Oratio]
Almighty everlasting God, who hast taken body and soul into heaven the Immaculate Virgin Mary, Mother of thy Son: grant, we beseech thee, that by steadfastly keeping heaven as our goal we may be counted worthy to join her in glory.
$Per eumdem

[Hymnus Matutinum]
v. Arise! the cold blasts from earth have receded,
And in the field are lovely flowers smiling,
For thee, O gracious Mother, bearer of Life,
Arise, O Mary!
_
Beautiful Lily blooming 'mid the brambles,
Death's haughty author thou alone didst conquer,
Plucking life-giving tree of fruits the fathers
By sin did not taste.
_
Ark of sweet wood not destined for ruin,
Holding the manna, whence springeth forth the power
Summoning forth the bones again arisen
From depths of the tomb.
_
Thou handmaid, faithful to the Ruler of hearts,
Thy flesh cruel decay could never touch,
Thy soul of Spirit partaking without end,
Hath winged to the stars.
_
Leaning on thy beloved, arise, go heav'nward!
Accept the crown with stars for thee bedecked,
List to the hymn thy children sing on this day,
Calling thee blessed.
_
Praise to the Triune Godhead everlasting,
Who hath caused thee, O Virgin, to be crowned,
And providently willed our Queen thou shouldst be
Also our Mother.
Amen.

[Ant Matutinum]
The holy Mother of God is exalted over choirs of Angels * into the heavenly kingdom.;;8
Through thee have the gates of Paradise been thrown open to us, * O thou who this day dost triumph so gloriously among the Angels.;;18
Blessed art thou among women, * and blessed is the Fruit of thy womb.;;23
V. The holy Mother of God is exalted.
R. Over choirs of Angels into the heavenly kingdom.
In thy comeliness and thy beauty, * go forward, fare prosperously, and reign.;;44
The Most High * has sanctified His tabernacle.;;45
Glorious things * are spoken of thee, O Virgin Mary.;;86
V. Mary hath been taken to heaven the Angels rejoice.
R. They praise and bless the Lord.
Rejoice, O Virgin Mary, * thou hast trampled down all the heresies in the whole world.;;95
The heavens shall announce * his justice, and all peoples will see his glory.;;96
Sing to the Lord * a new song, for he hath done marvelous things unto thee, O Mary.;;97
V. The Virgin Mary hath been taken into the chamber on high.
R. Where the King of kings sitteth on a throne amid the stars.

[Lectio1]
Lesson from the book of Genesis
!Gen 3:9-15
9 And the Lord God called Adam, and said to him: Where art thou? 
10 And he said: I heard thy voice in paradise; and I was afraid, because I was naked, and I hid myself.
11 And he said to him: And who hath told thee that thou wast naked, but that thou hast eaten of the tree whereof I commanded thee that thou shouldst not eat? 
12 And Adam said: The woman, whom thou gavest me to be my companion, gave me of the tree, and I did eat. 
13 And the Lord God said to the woman: Why hast thou done this? And she answered: The serpent deceived me, and I did eat. 
14 And the Lord God said to the serpent: Because thou hast done this thing, thou art cursed among all cattle, and beasts of the earth: upon thy breast shalt thou go, and earth shalt thou eat all the days of thy life. 
15 I will put enmities between thee and the woman, and thy seed and her seed: she shall crush thy head, and thou shalt lie in wait for her heel. 

[Lectio2]
From the First Epistle of Blessed Paul the Apostle to the Corinthians
!1 Cor 15:20-26
20 But now Christ is risen from the dead, the firstfruits of them that sleep:
21 For by a man came death, and by a man the resurrection of the dead. 
22 And as in Adam all die, so also in Christ all shall be made alive. 
23 But every one in his own order: the firstfruits Christ, then they that are of Christ, who have believed in his coming. 
24 Afterwards the end, when he shall have delivered up the kingdom to God and the Father, when he shall have brought to nought all principality, and power, and virtue. 
25 For he must reign, until he hath put all his enemies under his feet.
26 And the enemy death shall be destroyed last.

[Lectio3]
!1 Cor 15:53-57
53 For this corruptible must put on incorruption; and this mortal must put on immortality. 
54 And when this mortal hath put on immortality, then shall come to pass the saying that is written: Death is swallowed up in victory. 
55 O death, where is thy victory? O death, where is thy sting?
56 Now the sting of death is sin: and the power of sin is the law. 
57 But thanks be to God, who hath given us the victory through our Lord Jesus Christ.

[Responsory4]
@Commune/C11:Responsory6:s/:.\&.*/ thy name is as ointment poured forth./s

[Lectio6]
From the Acts of Pope Pius XII
_
Since indeed the universal Church hath at all times and throughout the ages manifested faith in the bodily Assumption of the Blessed Virgin Mary, and since the Bishops of the whole world by an almost unanimous agreement have petitioned that this truth, which is enshrined in Sacred Scripture and deeply rooted in the souls of Christ's faithful, and is also truly in accord with other revealed truths, should be defined as a dogma of the divine and Catholic Faith, Pope Pius XII, acceding to the requests of the whole Church, decreed that this privilege of the Blessed Virgin Mary be solemnly proclaimed, and thus, on the first day of November of the year of the Great Jubilee, nineteen hundred and fifty, at Rome, in the open square before the Basilica of St. Peter, surrounded by a throng of many Cardinals and Bishops of the Holy Roman Church who had come from distant parts of the earth, and before a great multitude of the faithful, with the whole Catholic world rejoicing, proclaimed in these words and with infallible statement the bodily Assumption of the Blessed Virgin Mary into heaven: Wherefore, having offered to God continual prayers of supplication, and having invoked the light of the Spirit of Truth, to the glory of Almighty God who hath enriched the Virgin Mary with his special favour; in honour of his Son, the immortal King of ages and victor over sin and death; for the increase of the glory of the same august Mother, and for the joy and exultation of the whole Church, by the authority of Our Lord Jesus Christ, of the holy Apostles Peter and Paul, and by our own authority, we pronounce, declare and define it to be a divinely revealed dogma that: The Immaculate Mother of God, Mary ever Virgin, was, at the end of her earthly life, assumed body and soul into heavenly glory. 

[Lectio7]
From the Holy Gospel according to Luke
!Luke 1:41-50
At that time: Elisabeth was filled with the Holy Ghost: and she spoke out with a loud voice, and said, Blessed art thou among women. And so on.
_
A Homily by St. Peter Canisius, the Priest
!De Maria Deipara Virgine, lib. 5, c. 6
The Church frequently and reverently keepeth feastdays dedicated to the Mother of God, realizing that it is a work pleasing to God and worthy of the faithful if many feasts, with fixed dates and public ceremonies, are celebrated in honour of the most blessed of all the blessed in heaven, the Mother of our Lord and God. Among all these feasts which have been celebrated so devotedly for so many years, even unto the present day, the Feast of the Assumption is considered the greatest and holdeth chief place. Indeed there was no happier or more joyful day for Mary, if we duly consider the happiness of both body and soul granted to her on that day. Then especially, as never before, her spirit, soul and body rejoiced wondrously in the living God and she could rightfully say: He hath regarded the lowliness of his handmaiden; for behold, all generations shall call me blessed; for he that is mighty hath magnified me.

[Lectio8]
O thrice blessed and truly august Mother, it is for this reason that we who love thee and thy Son cannot refrain from congratulating thee with all sincerity upon thine admirable and incomparable happiness, especially since everything that hath been said to thee and about thee by the Lord, is brought to a conclusion by thy beautiful passing away from this life, and in every wise hath been perfectly fulfilled. Blessed art thou who hast not only believed but hast this day attained unto the end of faith and the fruit of all virtue, and now at last hast merited to enjoy the most pleasing sight of him whom thou didst love and desire so greatly. Thyself a guest, thou didst receive Emmanuel who as a guest did enter into thee, as into a mighty fortress in this world; and today, thou in turn art received by him into his royal mansion, and magnificently welcomed with the highest honour, as befitteth one found worthy to be the Mother of such a Solomon.

[Lectio9]
O blessed day which sent so precious a gift from the desert of this world, and carried it to the holy and eternal city, so that universal and unheard of joy no less than admiration welled up in all the blessed in heaven. O blessed day, that fulfilled the long and ardent yearning of the gentle spouse, so that she might find what she had sought, that she might receive what she asked; that what she awaited she might possess securely, resting safely at last in that perfect vision and inward joy of the eternal and all-great Goodness. O blessed day which raised up and so highly exalted this most humble handmaiden of the Lord that she might become the most glorious Queen of Heaven and the mistress of the world. Indeed she could not have risen to more sublime heights since she had been elevated to the very Throne of the heavenly kingdom, and thus was established in glory next after Christ. O blessed and truly honourable is this day which constituted and confirmed for us a Queen and Mother who is at once powerful and merciful in the kingdom of God, that we might have her, who ever remaineth the Mother of the Judge, as a Mother of mercy protecting us and interceding for us with Christ, unceasingly watching over the work of our salvation.
&teDeum

[Hymnus Laudes]
v.  O Virgin, who shines with sun's rays surrounded,
And over whose head glows the twelve starred crown,
The moon of high heaven thy footstool is made,
Thou Queen of renown.
_
O thou Victress over hell and dreadful death,
Enthroned near Christ and ever our Mother,
Earth and the heavens sing loud of thy glory,
Thou sovereign Queen.
_
But evil still is menacing thy children, 
Confided to thee by thy crucified Son,
O Mother, draw nigh, `gainst the demon defend
By crushing his head.
_
Guard thou the faithful all who follow thy Son,
And bring back to the sheepfold of the Shepherd
Far wandering souls that are shadowed by death,
O save every one.
_
In kindness beg mercy for all poor sinners;
Also the sick, the poor, the sorrowful, aid;
`Midst life's thorns grant light and peaceful assurance
Of our salvation.
_
Praise to the Triune Godhead everlasting, 
Who hath caused thee, O Virgin, to be crowned,
And providently willed our queen thou shouldst be
Also our Mother.
Amen.

[Lectio Prima]
!Jdt 15:10
v. Thou art the glory of Jerusalem, thou art the joy of Israel, thou art the honour of our people.

[Capitulum Sexta]
!Jdt 13:24-25
v. Blessed be the Lord, because he hath so magnified thy name this day, that thy praise shall not depart out of the mouth of men.
$Deo gratias

[Capitulum Nona]
@:Lectio Prima
$Deo gratias

[Octava 1]
!Commemoration of the Octave of the Assumption of the B.M.V.
Ant. Today the Blessed Virgin Mary * ascended to heaven, rejoice, she reigns with Christ forever.
_
V. The holy Mother of God hath been exalted.
R. Over choirs of Angels, into the heavenly kingdom.
_
$Oremus
Almighty everlasting God, who hast taken body and soul into heaven the Immaculate Virgin Mary, Mother of thy Son: grant, we beseech thee, that by steadfastly keeping heaven as our goal we may be counted worthy to join her in glory.
$Per eumdem

[Octava 2]
!Commemoration of the Octave of the Assumption of the B.M.V.
Ant. Who is she * that cometh up like the rising dawn, * fair as the moon, clear as the sun, terrible as a fenced camp set in battle array?
_
V. The holy Mother of God hath been exalted.
R. Over choirs of Angels, into the heavenly kingdom.
_
$Oremus
Almighty everlasting God, who hast taken body and soul into heaven the Immaculate Virgin Mary, Mother of thy Son: grant, we beseech thee, that by steadfastly keeping heaven as our goal we may be counted worthy to join her in glory.
$Per eumdem
