[Rank]
Quarta die infra Octavam S. Assumptionis;;Semiduplex;;2;;vide Sancti/08-15

[Rank1960]
S. Agapiti Martyris;;Simplex;;1.1;;vide C2

[Commemoratio]
!Commemoratio S. Agapiti Martyris
@Commune/C2:Oratio proper
$Oremus
May Thy Church, O God, rejoice with confidence in the pleadings of Thine Holy Martyr Agapitus, and with the help of his glorious prayers remain ever godly and stand ever secure.
$Per Dominum
(sed rubrica 1955 omittitur)

[Lectio1]
From the Song of Songs
!Song 4:1-4.
 How beautiful art thou, my love, how beautiful art thou! thy eyes are doves'~
eyes, besides what is hid within. thy hair is as flocks of goats, which Come up~
from mount Galaad.
2 thy teeth as flocks of sheep, that are shorn which come up from the washing,~
all with twins, and there is none barren among them.
3 thy lips are as a scarlet lace: and thy speech sweet. thy cheeks are as a~
piece of a pomegranate, besides that which lieth hid within.
4 thy neck, is as the tower of David, which is built with bulwarks: a thousand~
bucklers hang upon it, all the armour of valiant men.
(sed rubrica 1955 omittitur)

[Lectio2]
!Song 4:7-10
7 Thou art all fair, O my love, and there is not a spot in thee.
8 Come from Libanus, my spouse, come from Libanus, come: thou shalt be crowned~
from the top of Amana, from the top of Sanir and Hermon, from the dens of the~
lions, from the mountains of the leopards.
9 Thou hast wounded my heart, my sister, my spouse, thou hast wounded my heart~
with one of thy eyes, and with one hair of thy neck.
10 How beautiful are thy breasts, my sister, my spouse! thy breasts are more~
beautiful than wine, and the sweet smell of thy ointments above all aromatical~
spices.
(sed rubrica 1955 omittitur)

[Lectio3]
!Song 4:11-15
11 thy lips, my spouse, are as a dropping honeycomb, honey and milk are under~
thy tongue; and the smell of thy garments, as the smell of frankincense.
12 My sister, my spouse, is a garden enclosed, a garden enclosed, a fountain~
sealed up.
13 thy plants are a paradise of pomegranates with the fruits of the orchard.~
Cypress with spikenard.
14 Spikenard and saffron, sweet cane and cinnamon, with all the trees of Libanus,~
myrrh and aloes with all the chief perfumes.
15 The fountain of gardens: the well of living waters, which run with a strong~
stream from Libanus.
(sed rubrica 1955 omittitur)

[Lectio4]
The Lesson is taken from the Apostolic Constitution of Pope Pius XII
_
All these proofs and considerations of the holy Fathers and Theologians are based upon the Sacred Scriptures as the final foundation; they establish the blessed Mother of God before our eyes, as it were, as most closely united to her divine Son and always sharing his lot.  Therefore, it seemeth impossible to think of her who conceived Christ, gave birth to him, gave him milk, held him in her arms, and clasped him to her heart, as being, after her earthly life, separated from him in body if not in soul. Since our Redeemer is the Son of Mary, he could surely not do otherwise, as the most perfect observer of the divine law, than to honour his most beloved Mother in addition to honouring his eternal Father.  And, since it was possible for him to give her this great honour, that she might be preserved from the corruption of the grave, we must believe that he really did so.
(sed rubrica 1955 omittitur)

[Lectio5]
And this indeed should be borne in mind, that as far back as the second century the holy Fathers represented Mary as the new Eve of a new Adam, and closely joined to him (although dependently upon him) in the fight against the hellish enemy which, as already foretold in the protogospel, would end in complete victory over sin and death, which two phases are always joined in the writings of the Apostle of the Gentiles.  Wherefore, just as the essential glory of Christ's resurrection was a part and final trophy of this victory, so also the association of Mary with her Son in this common struggle was to end with the glorification of her virginal body; for as the same Apostle saith : When this mortal shall have put on immortality, then shall be brought to pass the saying that is written, Death is swallowed up in victory.
(sed rubrica 1955 omittitur)

[Lectio6]
Therefore the august Mother of God, from all eternity united in a hidden way with Jesus Christ by one and the same decree of predestination, immaculate in her conception, an inviolate virgin in her divine motherhood, the gracious cooperator of the Divine Redeemer who triumphed completely over sin and its consequences, was finally granted as the supreme crown of her privileges that she should be preserved free from the corruption of the grave, and that, like her own Son, having conquered death, she might be taken up, body and soul, to the exalted glory of heaven, where she sitteth in splendour at the right hand of her very Son, the immortal King of ages.
(sed rubrica 1955 omittitur)

[Lectio7]
From the holy Gospel according to Luke.
!Luke 10:38-42
In that time Jesus entered into a certain town: and a certain woman named Martha, received him into her house. And so on.
_
Homily of St. Augustine, Bishop of Hippo
!Ex Serm. 27. de Verbis Dom., paulo ante medium
Bene Martha circa corporalem Domini, quid dicam, necessitatem, an voluntatem?~
ministrebat carni mortali. Sed quis erat in carne mortali? In principio erat~
Verbum, et Verbum erat apud Deum, et Deus erat Verbum. Ecce quod Maria audiebat.~
Verbum caro factum est, et habitavit in nobis. Ecce Martha cui ministrabat. Ergo~
Maria meliorem partem elegit, quae non auferetur ab ea. Hoc enim elegit, quod~
semper manebit, ideo non auferetur ab ea.

[Lectio7](rubrica divino)
From the Holy Gospel according to Luke
!Luke 1:41-50
At that time : Elisabeth was filled with the Holy Ghost: and she spake out with a loud voice, and said, Blessed art thou among women.  And so on, and that which followeth.
_
A Homily by St. Peter Damian the Bishop
!In Nativitate B. M. V.
O Virgin Mother of God, at whose beauty the sun and the moon stand in awe, come to the aid of them that unceasingly call upon thee, O Lady. Turn thou unto us, o turn thou unto us, O Sulamitess, turn thou unto us, o turn thou unto us that we may behold thee, O blessed, yea more than blessed Maid, turn thou unto us in thy power. He that is mighty hath magnified thee, and hath given thee all power in heaven and in earth. Nothing is impossible to thee, to whom it is possible to shew the most desolate souls the hope of happiness. For how can that Power ignore thy power, when it received its fleshly origin from thy flesh? Thou standest before that golden altar of reconciliation, not only asking, but commanding, as mistress rather than handmaid. Let thy nature move thee, because the more power thou art, the more merciful must thou needs be. For it doth surely redound to the glory of power, to be unwilling to exact vengeance for wrong. Look upon us through love; I know, O Lady, that thou art the most blessed and that thou lovest with an unconquerable love them that in thee and through thee, thy Son and thy God hath loved with a great love. Who knoweth how many times thou didst turn away the anger of the Judge when the virtue of justice went forth from the presence of God.

[Lectio8](rubrica divino)
Turn thou unto us through thy very uniqueness. In thy hands are the treasures of the Lord's mercy, and thou alone art the chosen one to whom such great grace is given.  Heaven forbid thy hand should ever weaken, for thou wilt never have to seek any occasion of saving the unfortunate or of pouring you thy mercy.  Nor doth thy glory ever grow less, but it ever increaseth, for penitents are taken back into favour, and just souls are raised into glory. Turn thou unto us, O Sulamitess, that is, one who was despised, whose soul the sword did pierce and who hath been called the spouse of a carpenter.  And why do we ask thee to turn unto us?  So that we may behold thee.  The greatest glory after seeing God is to see thee, to cling to thee, and to dwell in the fastness of thy protection.  Hear thou us, for thy Son doth honour thee and denieth thee nothing, and he is God who is blessed forever and ever. Amen.

[Lectio9](rubrica divino)
!Commemoratio S. Agapito Mart.
Agapitus was a young man of Palestrina, who eagerly accepted martyrdom at the age of fifteen years, under the Emperor Aurelian. On account of his firmness in his religion, the Emperor ordered him first to receive an exceedingly long hiding with cat-gut, and then to be thrown into a foul dungeon, where he remained for four days without food. Being brought out of prison, live embers were put upon his head, but, whereas he still gave God thanks, he was whipped again, and hung up naked by the feet, in such wise that a thick smoke from a fire kindled under his face might pour into his mouth. Afterwards, boiling water was poured upon his belly, and his jaws were broken. Then presently the judge fell from his judgement seat, and shortly after died. Whereupon the Emperor was enraged, and commanded the holy youth to be thrown to wild beasts, but these dared not to touch him, and he was stricken by the sword at Palestrina.
&teDeum

[Lectio93]
!Commemoratio S. Agapito Mart.
Agapitus was a young man of Palestrina, who eagerly accepted martyrdom at the age of fifteen years, under the Emperor Aurelian. On account of his firmness in his religion, the Emperor ordered him first to receive an exceedingly long hiding with cat-gut, and then to be thrown into a foul dungeon, where he remained for four days without food. Being brought out of prison, live embers were put upon his head, but, whereas he still gave God thanks, he was whipped again, and hung up naked by the feet, in such wise that a thick smoke from a fire kindled under his face might pour into his mouth. Afterwards, boiling water was poured upon his belly, and his jaws were broken. Then presently the judge fell from his judgement seat, and shortly after died. Whereupon the Emperor was enraged, and commanded the holy youth to be thrown to wild beasts, but these dared not to touch him, and he was stricken by the sword at Palestrina.
&teDeum
