[Rank]
Septem Dolorum Beatae Mariae Virginis;;Duplex 2nd class;;5.1;;ex C11

[Rank1960]
Septem Dolorum Beatae Mariae Virginis;;Duplex 2nd class;;5;;ex C11

[RankNewcal]
Septem Dolorum Beatae Mariae Virginis;;Duplex;;3;;ex C11

[Rule]
ex C11;
9 lectiones
Psalmi Dominica
Antiphonas horas

[Ant Vespera]
Whither is thy beloved gone, * O thou fairest among women? Whither is thy beloved turned aside? that we may seek him with thee.;;109
Look away from me. * I will weep bitterly. Labour not to comfort me.;;112
He hath no form nor comeliness, * and when we shall see him there is no beauty that we should desire him.;;121
From the sole of the foot even unto the head, there is no soundness in it.;;126
Revive me with flowers, * stay me up with apples for I am swooning with love.;;147

[Capitulum Vespera]
!Lam 2:13
v. To what shall I compare thee? or to what shall I liken thee, O daughter of Jerusalem? to what shall I equal thee, that I may comfort thee, O virgin daughter of Sion? for great as the sea is thy destruction: who shall heal thee? 
$Deo gratias

[Hymnus Matutinum]
v. What a sea of tears and sorrow
Did the soul of Mary toss
To and fro upon its billows,
While she wept her bitter loss;
In her arms her Jesus holding,
Torn so newly from the cross.
_
Oh, that mournful Virgin-Mother!
See her tears how fast they flow
Down upon his mangled body,
Wounded side, and thorny brow;
While his hands and feet she kisses—
Picture of immortal woe.
_
Oft and oft his arms and bosom
Fondly straining to her own;
Oft her pallid lips imprinting
On each wound of her dear Son;
Till at last, in swoons of anguish,
Sense and consciousness are gone.
_
Gentle Mother, we beseech thee
By thy tears and troubles sore;
By the death of thy dear offspring,
By the bloody wounds he bore;
Touch our hearts with that true sorrow
Which afflicted thee of yore.
_
To the Father everlasting,
And the Son who reigns on high,
With the co-eternal Spirit,
Trinity in Unity,
Be salvation, honour, blessing
Now and through eternity.
Amen.

[Versum 1]
V. Pray for us, O Queen of Martyrs.
R. Who didst stand by the Cross of Jesus.

[Ant 1]
Look not upon me * because I am black, because the sun hath tanned me. My mother's children were angry with me.

[Doxology]
Lord Jesu, slain for us, to thee
Eternal praise be given,
With Father, Spirit, One and Three,
Here as it is in heaven.
Amen.

[Invit]
Let us take our stand by the Cross, in company with Mary, the Mother of Jesus. * A sword of sorrow hath pierced through her own soul also.

[Hymnus Vespera]
v. Nov let the darkling eve mount suddenly on high,
The sun affrighted reave his splendours from the sky,
While I in silence grieve o'er the mocked agony
And the divine catastrophe.
_
Grief-drenched, thou dost appear with heart of adamant,
O Mother; and dost hear the great hierophant,
Upon his wooden bier locked in the arms of death,
Utter in groans his parting breath.
_
What lookest thou upon, mangled and bruised and torn?
Ah, 'tis the very Son thy yearning breast bath borne!
Surely, each breaking moan and each deep-mouthèd wound
Its fellow in thy heart hath found!
_
Surely, the taunts and woes, the scourge, the dripping thorn,
The spitting and the blows, the gall, the lance, the scorn—
Surely, each torment throws a poison-dart at thee,
Crushed by their manifold tyranny.
_
Yet thou with patient mien beneath his cross dost stand,
Nobler in this, I ween, than all the martyr-band:
A thousand deaths, O Queen, upon thy spirit lie,
Yet thou, O marvel! dost not die.
_
O Holy Trinity, let earth and heaven raise
Their song of laud to thee the while my spirit prays:—
When evil comes to me, the strength do thou impart
That erst upheld thy Mother's heart!
Amen.

[Ant Matutinum]
They are increased that trouble me; * many are they that rise up against me.;;3
They make ready their arrows in the quiver, * that they may privily shoot at the upright in heart.;;10
My life is spent with grief, * and my years with sighing.;;30
V. Pray for us, O Queen of Martyrs,
R. Who didst stand by the Cross of Jesus.
My heart is like melting wax in the midst of my bowels.;;21
O God, I have declared my life unto thee Thou hast put my tears in thy sight.;;55
My tears have been my meat day and night.;;41
V. A bundle of myrrh is my well-beloved unto me.
R. He shall lie betwixt my breasts.
They bend their bow, even bitter words, that they may shoot in secret at the perfect.;;63
My soul is sore vexed, but Thou, O Lord, how long.;;6
God is our help in trouble, which is come upon us exceedingly.;;45
V. Through thee, O Virgin Mary, may we draw the waters of salvation.
R. Out of the Wounds of Christ.

[Lectio1]
Lesson from the book of Lamentations
!Lam 1:2; 1:20-21
2 Weeping she hath wept in the night, and her tears are on her cheeks: there is none to comfort her among all them that were dear to her: all her friends have despised her, and are become her enemies.
20 Behold, O Lord, for I am in distress, my bowels are troubled: my heart is turned within me, for I am full of bitterness: abroad the sword destroyeth, and at home there is death alike.
21 They have heard that I sigh, and there is none to comfort me: all my enemies have heard of my evil, they have rejoiced that thou hast done it: thou hast brought a day of consolation, and they shall be like unto me.

[Responsory1]
R. There was a man whose name was Simeon; and the same man was just and devout; and he said unto Mary
* Yea, a sword shall pierce through thine own soul also.
V. Call me not My-pleasantness, but call me Embittered, for the Almighty hath dealt very bitterly with me.
R. Yea, a sword shall pierce through thine own soul also.

[Lectio2]
!Lam 2:13-16
13 To what shall I compare thee? or to what shall I liken thee, O daughter of Jerusalem? to what shall I equal thee, that I may comfort thee, O virgin daughter of Sion? for great as the sea is thy destruction: who shall heal thee?
14 thy prophets have seen false and foolish things for thee: and they have not laid open thy iniquity, to excite thee to penance: but they have seen for thee false revelations and banishments.
15 All they that passed by the way have clapped their hands at thee: they have hissed, and wagged their heads at the daughter of Jerusalem, saying: Is this the city of perfect beauty, the joy of all the earth?
16 All thy enemies have opened their mouth against thee: they have hissed, and gnashed with the teeth, and have said: We will swallow her up: lo, this is the day which we looked for: we have found it, we have seen it.

[Responsory2]
R. Arise, and take the young Child and His Mother, and flee into Egypt;
* And be thou there until I bring thee word.
V. Out of Egypt have I called My Son, that salvation may come unto Israel.
R. And be thou there until I bring thee word.

[Lectio3]
!Lam 2:17-18
17 The Lord hath done that which he purposed, he hath fulfilled his word, which he commanded in the days of old: he hath destroyed, and hath not spared, and he hath caused the enemy to rejoice over thee, and hath set up the horn of thy adversaries.
18 Their heart cried to the Lord upon the walls of the daughter of Sion: Let tears run down like a torrent day and night: give thyself no rest, and let not the apple of thy eye cease.

[Responsory3]
R. Son, why hast Thou thus dealt with us?
* I and thy father have sought thee sorrowing.
V. How is it that ye sought Me? Wist ye not that I must be about My Father's business?
R. I and thy Father
&Gloria
R. Have sought thee sorrowing.

[Lectio4]
From the Sermons of St Bernard, Abbot (of Clairvaux.)
!On the twelve stars.
The Martyrdom of the Virgin is set before us, not only in the prophecy of Simeon, but also in the story itself of the Lord's Passion. The holy old man said of the Child Jesus, (Luke ii. 34,) Behold, this Child is set for the fall and the rising again of many in Israel; and for a sign which shall be spoken against; yea, (said he unto Mary,) a sword shall pierce through thine own soul also Even so, O Blessed Mother! The sword did indeed pierce through thy soul! for nought could pierce the Body of thy Son, nor pierce thy soul likewise. Yea, and when this Jesus of thine had given up the ghost, and the bloody spear could torture Him no more, thy soul winced as it pierced His dead Side His Own Soul might leave Him, but thine could not.

[Responsory4]
R. Jesus bearing His Cross, went forth.
* And there followed Him a company of women, which bewailed and lamented Him.
V. Daughters of Jerusalem, weep for yourselves and for your children.
R. There followed Him a company of women, which bewailed and lamented Him.

[Lectio5]
The sword of sorrow pierced through thy soul, so that we may truly call thee more than martyr, in whom the love, that made thee suffer along with thy Son, wrung thy heart more bitterly than any pang of bodily pain could do. Did not that word of His indeed pierce through thy soul, sharper than any two-edged~
sword, even to the dividing asunder of soul and spirit, (Heb. iv. 12,) Woman, behold thy son! (John xix. 26.) O what a change to thee! Thou art given John for Jesus, the servant for his Lord, the disciple for his Master, the son of Zebedee for the Son of God, a mere man for Very God. O how keenly must the hearing of those words have pierced through thy most loving soul, when even our hearts, stony, iron, as they are, are wrung at the memory thereof only!

[Responsory5]
R. And when they were come to the place which is called Calvary, there they crucified Him.
* Now there stood by the Cross of Jesus His Mother.
V. Then was it that a sword of sorrow pierced through her blessed soul.
R. There stood by the Cross of Jesus His Mother.

[Lectio6]
Marvel not, my brethren, that Mary should be called a Martyr in spirit. He indeed may marvel who remembereth not what Paul saith, naming the greater sins of the Gentiles, that they were without natural affection, (Rom. i. 31.) Far other were the bowels of Mary, and far other may those of her servants be! But some man perchance will say Did she not know that He was to die? Yea, without doubt, she knew it. Did she not hope that He was soon to rise again? Yea, she most faithfully hoped it. And did she still mourn because He was crucified? Yea, bitterly. But who art thou, my brother, or whence hast thou such wisdom, to marvel less that the Son of Mary suffered than that Mary suffered with Him? He could die in the Body, and could not she die with Him in her heart? His was the~
deed of that Love, greater than which hath no man, (John xv. 13;) her's, of a love, like to which hath no man, save He.

[Responsory6]
R. Joseph of Arimathaea begged the Body of Jesus, and he took It down from the Cross,
* And His Mother received It into her arms.
V. The Shunamite took her dead son, and laid him on her knees; and her soul was vexed within her.
R. His Mother received It into her arms.
&Gloria
R. His Mother received It into her arms.

[Lectio7]
From the Holy Gospel according to John
!John 19:25-27
At that time: There stood by the Cross of Jesus His Mother, and His Mother's sister, Mary (the wife) of Cleophas, and Mary Magdalene. And so on.
_
Homily by St Ambrose, (Bishop of Milan.)
!On Virgins, 7.
There stood by the Cross His Mother. Men had forsaken Him, but she stood there fearless. Behold how the Mother of Jesus could break through her shrinking modesty, but could not belie her heart. With the eyes of a mother's love she gazed upon the Wounds of her Son, those Wounds through Which she knew that redemption for all mankind was flowing. The Mother, who feared not the executioners, was able to endure the sight of their work. Her Son was hanging upon the Cross, and she braved His tormentors.

[Responsory7]
R. O what a sickening at heart was thine, thou Mother of sorrows
* When Joseph wrapped thy Son in linen and laid Him in the sepulchre?
V. Behold, and see if there be any sorrow like unto my sorrow.
R. When Joseph wrapped thy Son in linen and laid Him in the sepulchre.

[Lectio8]
From St Ambrose, 
!25 th Epistle to the Church of Vercelli.
Mary, the Mother of the Lord, stood by the Cross of her Son. My only informant of this fact is the holy Evangelist John. Others have written that when the Lord suffered, the earth quaked, the heavens were veiled in darkness, the sun was hidden, and the thief received, after a good confession, the promise of Paradise. John hath taught us what the others have not taught us. Upon the Cross~
He called her Mother. It is reckoned (by John) a greater thing that in the moment of triumph over agony, He should have discharged the watchful duty of a Son to His Mother, than that He should have made gift of the kingdom of heaven. For if it be a sacred thing to have forgiven the thief, this so great kindness of the Son to the Mother is to be worshipped as the outcome of a tenderer and more touching love.

[Responsory8]
R. Forget not the sorrows of thy mother with thine whole heart,
* That thine offering and thy blessing may be perfected.
V. Hail, O maid of Royal birth, Noblest martyr-rose of earth, lily of virginity.
R. That thine offering and thy blessing may be perfected.
&Gloria
R. That thine offering and thy blessing may be perfected.

[Lectio93]
@Sancti/09-15t:Lectio93

[Commemoratio]
!Commemoration of St. Nicomedes, Martyr
@Commune/C2:Oratio proper
$Oremus
Give ear, O Lord, to our supplications, and that the prayers of thy blessed martyr Nicomedes, for whose feast we are making ready, graciously pour upon us thine everlasting mercy.
$Per Dominum

[Ant Laudes]
Whither is thy beloved gone, * O thou fairest among women? Whither is thy beloved turned aside? that we may seek him with thee.
Look away from me. * I will weep bitterly. Labour not to comfort me.
He hath no form nor comeliness, * and when we shall see him there is no beauty that we should desire him.
From the sole of the foot even unto the head, there is no soundness in it.
Revive me with flowers, * stay me up with apples for I am swooning with love.

[Capitulum Laudes]
!Lam 2:13
v. What thing shall I take to witness for thee? What thing shall I liken to thee, O daughter of Jerusalem? What shall I equal to thee, that I may comfort thee, O virgin daughter of Zion? For thy breach is great like the sea.
$Deo gratias

[Hymnus Laudes]
v. God of mercy, let us run
Where yon fount of sorrows flows;
Pondering sweetly, one by one,
Jesu's wounds and Mary's woes.
_
Ah, those tears Our Lady shed,
Enough to drown a world of sin;
Tears that Jesu's sorrows fed,
Peace and pardon well may win!
_
His five wounds, a very home,
For our prayers and praises prove;
And Our Lady's woes become
Endless joys in heaven above.
_
Jesus, who for us did die,
All on thee our love we pour;
And in the Holy Trinity
Worship thee forevermore.
Amen.

[Versum 2]
V. By the woes that tortured thee,
R. Mary, ask for joy for me.

[Ant 2]
Come ye, and let us go * up to the mountain of the Lord, and see if there be any sorrow like unto my sorrow.

[Oratio]
O God, at Whose suffering the prophecy of Simeon was fulfilled, and a sword of sorrow pierced through the gentle soul of the glorious Virgin and Mother Mary, mercifully grant that we who speak worshipfully of her woes, may obtain the saving purchase of thy suffering.
$Qui vivis

[Versum Prima]
He that hath suffered for our salvation.

[Lectio Prima]
!Lam 2:18
v. The tears run down like a river day and night. Give thyself no rest, neither let the apple of thine eye cease.

[Capitulum Tertia]
!Lam 2:13
v. What thing shall I take to witness for thee? What thing shall I liken to thee, O daughter of Jerusalem? What shall I equal to thee, that I may comfort thee, O virgin daughter of Zion? For thy breach is great like the sea.
$Deo gratias

[Responsory Tertia]
R.br. All ye * that pass by.
R. All ye * that pass by.
V. Behold, and see if there be any sorrow like unto my sorrow.
R. Ye that pass by.
&Gloria
R. All ye * that pass by.
_
V. Mine eyes do fail with tears.
R. All my bowels are troubled.

[Capitulum Sexta]
!Lam 1:2
v. She weepeth sore in the night, and her tears are upon her cheeks. Among all her lovers she hath none to comfort her.
$Deo gratias

[Responsory Sexta]
R.br. Mine eyes * do fail with tears.
R. Mine eyes * do fail with tears.
V. All my bowels are troubled.
R. With tears.
&Gloria
R. Mine eyes * do fail with tears.
_
V. A bundle of myrrh is my well-beloved unto me.
R. He shall lie betwixt my breasts.

[Capitulum Nona]
!Lam 2:18
v. The tears run down like a river day and night. Give thyself no rest, neither let the apple of thine eye cease.
$Deo gratias

[Responsory Nona]
R.br. A bundle of myrrh * is my wellbeloved unto me.
R. A bundle of myrrh * is my well-beloved unto me.
V. He shall lie betwixt my breasts.
R. My well-beloved unto me.
&Gloria
R. A bundle of myrrh * is my well-beloved unto me.
_
V. My soul failed.
R. When my beloved spake.

[Versum 3]
V. Pray for us, O Queen of Martyrs.
R. Who didst stand by the Cross of Jesus.

[Ant 3]
Sorrow hath crushed me * My face is swollen with weeping, and on mine eyelids is the shadow of death.
