[Rank]
Sanctissimi Rosarii Beatae Mariae Virginis;;Duplex classis;;5.1;;ex C11

[Rank1960]
Sanctissimi Rosarii Beatae Mariae Virginis;;Duplex classis;;5;;ex C11

[Rule]
ex C11;
9 lectiones
Psalmi Dominica
Antiphonas horas
Doxology=Nat
CPapaC=Mark;

[Ant Vespera]
Who is this, * fair as a dove, like a rose-tree planted beside the rivers of waters?;;109
A virgin most mighty, * like the tower of David, whereon there hung a thousand bucklers, all the shields of valiant men.;;112
Hail, Mary, * the Lord is with thee, blessed art thou among women.;;121
The Lord hath blessed thee * by His power, because through thee He hath brought our enemies to nought.;;126
The daughters of Sion saw her in her spring time, amidst the flowers of the roses, and called her most blessed.;;147

[Capitulum Vespera]
!Sir 24:25; 39:17
v. In me is all grace of the way and of the truth, in me is all hope of life and of virtue, I am as the rose planted by the brooks of waters.
$Deo gratias

[Hymnus Vespera]
v. The messenger from God's high throne
His secret counsel making known
Hails Mary, child of David's race,
God's Virgin-Mother, full of grace.
_
The Mother-Maid with joyous feet
Her friend, John's mother, goes to greet;
He, stirring in the enclosing womb,
Declares that Christ his Lord has come.
_
The Word, who ere the worlds began,
From God the Father's thought forth ran,
Of Mary, Virgin undefiled,
For us is born a mortal child.
_
Christ to the temple courts they bring;
The King's own law subjects the King;
The world's Redeemer for a price
Is there redeemed, our sacrifice.
_
The joyful Mother finds once more
The Son she mourned as lost before;
While doctors by his speech were shown
The mysteries they had never known.
_
To God the Three in One be praise,
Who through these holy mysteries
Grants grace to those who seek in prayer
The glory of his bliss to share.
Amen.

[Versum 1]
V. Queen of the most holy Rosary, pray for us.
R. That we may be made worthy of the promises of Christ.

[Ant 1]
Blessed art thou, * O Virgin Mary, Mother of God, for thou hast believed in the Lord, and because those things are accomplished in thee that were spoken to thee; make intercession for us unto the same Lord our God.

[Oratio]
O God, Whose only-begotten Son, by His life, death and resurrection, has merited~
for us the grace of eternal salvation, grant, we beseech You, that, meditating~
upon those mysteries in the most holy Rosary of the Blessed Virgin Mary, we may~
imitate what they contain and obtain what they promise.
$Per eumdem

[Commemoratio 2]
!Commemoration of S. Mark, Pope
@Commune/C4:Oratio proper Gregem
$Oremus
Graciously hear our supplications, O Lord, and for the sake of thy Blessed Confessor and Bishop Mark, grant to us in thy mercy both pardon and peace.
$Per Dominum
_
!Commemoration of the Holy Martyrs Sergius, Bacchus, Marcellus and Apuleius
@Commune/C3:Oratio proper
_
$Oremus
Pause there to come upon us, O Lord, a grace from the blessed and worthy wrestling of thine holy Martyrs Sergius, Bacchus, Marcellus, and Apuleius, fanning ever in us the fire of the love of thyself.
$Per Dominum

[Invit]
Let us keep the Feast of the Rose-garden of the Blessed Virgin Mary; * Let us worship Christ her Son, and her Lord and ours.

[Hymnus Matutinum]
v. The Mount of Olives witnesseth
The awful agony of God:
His soul is sorrowful to death,
His sweat of blood bedews the sod.
_
And now the traitor's work is done:
The clamorous crowds around him surge;
Bound to pillar, God the Son
Quivers beneath the blood-red scourge.
_
Lo! clad in purple soiled and worn,
Meekly the Saviour waiteth now
While wretches plait the cruel thorn
To crown with shame his royal brow.
_
Sweating and sighing, faint with loss
Of what hath flowed from life's red fount,
He bears the exceeding heavy cross
Up to the verge of Calvary's mount.
_
Nailed to the wood of ancient curse,
Between two thieves the sinless one
Still praying for his murderers,
Breathes forth his soul, and all is done!
_
Glory to thee, and honour meet,
Jesu, of Maiden-Mother born,
And Father and the Paraclete,
Through endless ages of the morn!
Amen.

[Ant Matutinum]
The Angel Gabriel * announced unto Mary, and she conceived by the Holy Ghost.;;8
Mary entered * into the house of Zacharias, and saluted Elizabeth.;;18
She brought forth her first-born Son, * and laid Him in a manger.;;23
V. Holy Mother of God, Mary, always a Virgin,
R. Pray for us, unto the Lord our God.
When His parents brought in * (the child) Jesus to present Him to the Lord, Simeon took Him up in his arms and blessed God.;;44
His parents seeking Jesus * found Him after three days in the midst of the doctors.;;45
He began to be very sorrowful, * and in the garden the sweat became as it were drops of blood.;;86
V. After childbirth thou still remainest a virgin.
R. Mother of God, pray for us.
Pilate took Jesus * and scourged Him.;;95
The soldiers plaited a crown * of thorns, and put it on His Head.;;96
The government was upon His shoulder, * even the cross; from the tree hath God reigned.;;97
V. O holy Mother of God.
R. Thou art become beautiful and gentle in thy gladness.

[Lectio1]
Lesson from the book of Ecclesiasticus
!Sir 24:11-16
11 And by my power I have trodden under my feet the hearts of all the high and low: and in all these I sought rest, and I shall abide in the inheritance of the Lord. 
12 Then the creator of all things commanded, and said to me: and he that made me, rested in my tabernacle, 
13 And he said to me: Let thy dwelling be in Jacob, and thy inheritance in Israel, and take root in my elect. 
14 From the beginning, and before the world, was I created, and unto the world to come I shall not cease to be, and in the holy dwelling place I have ministered before him. 
15 And so was I established in Sion, and in the holy city likewise I rested, and my power was in Jerusalem. 
16 And I took root in an honourable people, and in the portion of my God his inheritance, and my abode is in the full assembly of saints.

[Responsory1]
R. Take the pleasant harp, in the time appointed, on your solemn feastday;
* And sing aloud unto the Virgin our strength.
V. O sing unto her a new song, declare her glory among the heathen.
R. And sing aloud unto the Virgin our strength.

[Lectio2]
!Sir 24:17-22
17 I was exalted like a cedar in Libanus, and as a cypress tree on mount Sion. 
18 I was exalted like a palm tree in Cades, and as a rose plant in Jericho: 
19 As a fair olive tree in the plains, and as a plane tree by the water in the streets, was I exalted. 
20 I gave a sweet smell like cinnamon. and aromatical balm: I yielded a sweet odour like the best myrrh: 
21 And I perfumed my dwelling as storax, and galbanum, and onyx, and aloes, and as the frankincense not cut, and my odour is as the purest balm. 
22 I have stretched out my branches as the turpentine tree, and my branches are of honour and grace.

[Responsory2]
R. I saw the fair one going up above the rivers of waters, a priceless savour hung heavy;
* And about her it was as the flower of roses in the spring of the year, and lilies of the valleys.
V. Upon thy right hand did stand the Queen in a vesture of gold, wrought about with diverse colours.
R. And about her it was as the flower of roses in the spring of the year, and lilies of the valleys.

[Lectio3]
!Sir 24:24-31
24 I am the mother of fair love, and of fear, and of knowledge, and of holy hope. 
25 In me is all grace of the way and of the truth, in me is all hope of life and of virtue. 
26 Come over to me, all ye that desire me, and be filled with my fruits. 
27 For my spirit is sweet above honey, and my inheritance above honey and the honeycomb. 
28 My memory is unto everlasting generations.
29 They that eat me, shall yet hunger: and they that drink me, shall yet thirst. 
30 He that hearkeneth to me, shall not be confounded: and they that work by me, shall not sin. 
31 They that explain me shall have life everlasting.

[Responsory3]
R. Who is this that cometh up like the sun? this, comely as Jerusalem?
* The daughters of Zion saw her, and called her blessed; the queens also, and they praised her.
V. And about her it was as the flower of roses in the spring of the year, and lilies of the valleys.
R. The daughters of Zion saw her, and they called her blessed; the queens also, and they praised her.
&Gloria
R. The daughters of Zion saw her, and they called her blessed; the queens also, and they praised her.

[Lectio4]
When the heresy of the Albigenses was making head against God in the County of Toulouse, and striking deeper roots every day, the holy Dominic, who had but just laid the foundations of the Order of Friars Preachers, threw his whole strength into the travail of plucking these blasphemies up. That he might be fitter for the work, he cried for help with his whole soul to that Blessed Maiden, whose glory the falsehoods of the heretics so insolently assailed, and to whom it hath been granted to trample down every heresy throughout the whole earth. It is said that he had from her a word, bidding him preach up the saying of the Rosary among the people, as a strong help against heresy and sin, and it is wonderful with how stout an heart and how good a success he did the work laid upon him. This Rose-garden (or Rosary) is a certain form of prayer, wherein we say one-hundred-and-fifty times the salutation of the Angel, and the Lord's Prayer between every ten times, and, each of the fifteen times that we say the Lord's Prayer, and repeat tenfold the salutation, think of one of fifteen great events in the history of our Redemption. From that time forth this form of godly prayer was extraordinarily spread about by holy Dominic, and waxed common. That this same Dominic was the founder and prime mover thereof hath been said by Popes in diverse letters of the Apostolic See.

[Responsory4]
R. Thou art the glory of Jerusalem thou art the joy of Israel thou art the honour of our nation thou hast done manfully
* For thou alone hast slain all heresies.
V. Fair and comely art thou, terrible as a fenced camp set in battle array.
R. For thou alone hast slain all heresies.

[Lectio5]
From this healthy exercise have grown up numberless good fruits in the Christian Commonwealth. Among these deserveth well to be named that great victory over the Sultan of Turkey, which the most holy Pope Pius V, and the Christian Princes whom he had roused, won at Lepanto, (on the 7th day of October, the first Lord's Day in the month, in the year of our Lord 1571) The day whereon this victory was gained was the very one whereon the Guildbrethren of the most holy Rosary, throughout the whole world, were used to offer their accustomed prayers and appointed supplications, and the event therefore was not unnaturally connected therewith. This being the avowed opinion of Gregory XIII, he ordered that in all Churches where there was, or should be, an Altar of the Rosary, a Feast, in the form of a Greater Double, should be kept for ever upon the first Lord's Day of the month of October, to give unceasing thanks to the Blessed Virgin, under her style of (Queen of) the (Most Holy) Rosary, for that extraordinary mercy of God. Other Popes also have granted almost numberless Indulgences to those who say the Rosary, and to those who join its Guilds.

[Responsory5]
R. Thy right hand is become glorious in power; thy right hand hath dashed in pieces the enemy
* They sank as lead in the mighty waters, and the sea covered them.
V. The Lord hath blessed thee by His power, because through thee He hath brought our enemies to nought.
R. They sank as lead in the mighty waters, and the sea covered them.

[Lectio6]
In the year 1716, Charles VI, Elect-Emperor of the Romans, won a famous victory over countless hordes of Turks, (near Timisoara,) in the kingdom of Hungary, upon the day when the Feast of the Dedication of the Church of St. Mary of the Snows was being kept, and almost at the very moment when the Guild-brethren of the most holy Rosary were moving through the streets of Rome in public and solemn procession, amid vast multitudes, all filled with the deepest enthusiasm, calling vehemently upon God for the defeat of the Turks, and entreating the Virgin Mother of God to bring the might of her succour to the help of the Christians. A few days later, (upon the Octave of the Feast of the Assumption,) the Turks raised the siege of Corfu. These mercies Clement XI devoutly ascribed to the helpful prayers of the Blessed Virgin, and that the memory and the sweetness of such a blessing might for all time coming endure gloriously, he extended to the whole Church the observance of the Feast of the most holy Rosary, for the same day and of the same rank, (as it had already been in the places before mentioned.) Benedict XIII commanded the record of all these things to be given a place in the Service-book of the Church of Rome; and Leo XIII, in the most troublous times of the Church and the cruel storm of long pressing evils, by fresh Apostolic letters vehemently urged upon all the faithful throughout the earth the often saying of the Rosary of (the Blessed Virgin) Mary, raised the dignity of the yearly festival, added to the Litany of Loretto the Invocation Queen of the Most Holy Rosary, and granted to the whole Church a special Office for this solemn occasion. Let us all then be earnest in honouring the most holy Mother of God in this form which she liketh so well, that even as the entreaties of Christ's faithful people, approaching her in her Garden of Roses, have so often won her to scatter and destroy their earthly foes, so she may gain for them the victory over their hellish foes likewise.

[Responsory6]
R. There appeared a great wonder in heaven a woman clothed with the sun, and the moon under her feet,
* And upon her head a crown of twelve stars.
V. Unto thine head shall be given an ornament of grace, and a crown of glory shall cover thee.
R. And upon her head a crown of twelve stars.
&Gloria
R. And upon her head a crown of twelve stars.

[Lectio7]
From the Holy Gospel according to Luke
!Luke 1:26-38
At that time the angel Gabriel was sent from God into a city of Galilee, called Nazareth, to a virgin espoused to a man whose name was Joseph, of the house of David; and the virgin's name was Mary. And so on.
_
Homily by St. Bernard, Abbot (of Clairvaux)
!Homily on Holy Mary
To commend His Own love towards us, and to bring to nought the wisdom of men, God was pleased to take flesh of a woman, albeit a virgin, that He might bring like against like, heal by opposites, pluck out the poisonous thorn, and blot out mightily the handwriting of our sin that was against us. Eve was a thorn, Mary is a rose. Eve is a thorn that pierceth, Mary is a rose that charmeth all the senses. Eve was a thorn that fixed death into all, Mary is a rose that bringeth health to all. Mary was a white rose through her virginity, and a red rose through her love. She was white in her flesh, red in her mind; white in that she followed the path of grace, red in that she trod down sin; white by the purity of her affections, red by the mortification of her body; white by her love for God, red by her compassion for her neighbour.

[Responsory7]
R. As the vine brought I forth pleasant savour;
* And my flowers are the fruit of honour and seemliness.
V. I am the mother of fair love, and fear, and knowledge, and holy hope.
R. And my flowers are the fruit of honour and seemliness.

[Lectio8]
!Homily on the water course
The Word was made flesh, and dwelleth even now among us. He dwelleth in our memory. He dwelleth in our thought. He hath come down even unto our imagination; and how sayest thou doth he so? By lying in the manger, by nestling in His mother's breast, by preaching upon the mountain, by remaining all night in prayer to God, by hanging upon the Cross, by turning pale in death, by going down free among the dead and triumphing in hell, by rising again the third day, by showing to the Apostles the places of the nails the marks of his victory, by ascending up into heaven while they all beheld Him, of which of these things think we not with truth, with godliness, with holiness? If I think of any of these, I think of God, and He is my God through them all. To think of these things I have decreed to be wisdom, and to set forth the memory of their sweetness I have judged to be prudence. The rod of Aaron the Priest brought forth buds, and bloomed blossoms, and yielded almonds; but these things are the almonds of that Rod which came forth out of the stem of Jesse, the Rod whereof sprang the flower, a Rod which was raised in Mary into places higher than the earthly tabernacle, higher indeed, even into places higher than angels, since she received the Word into herself out of the very heart of the Eternal Father.

[Responsory8]
R. Rise up, my love, and make haste. For the winter is past; the rain is over and gone
* The flowers appear on our earth.
V. The Lord shall give that which is good, and our land shall yield her increase.
R. The flowers appear on our earth.
&Gloria
R. The flowers appear on our earth.

[Ant Laudes]
Rejoice, O Virgin Mother, * Christ is risen from the grave.
God is gone up with a shout, * and the Lord with the sound of a trumpet.
The spirit of the Lord * hath filled the world.
Mary hath been taken to heaven. * The angels rejoice; they praise and bless the Lord. Alleluia.
The Virgin Mary * hath been exalted over choirs of angels, and upon her head there is a crown of twelve stars.

[Hymnus Laudes]
v. Now Christ, the conqueror of death,
Breaks sin's enslaving chain,
And rising from the tomb returns,
And opens heaven again.
_
Awhile beheld by mortal men,
He rises from their sight;
Ascending to the Father's throne,
He reigns in equal light.
_
His promised gift unto his own
He sends forth from above,
And rains the Holy Spirit down
In fiery tongues of love.
_
The Virgin, freed of mortal weight,
Is borne than stars yet higher,
And with glad melody is hailed
By each angelic choir.
_
Our Mother's gentle brow now shines
With crown in starry sheen,
As nigh her Son, in light enthroned,
She reigns creation's Queen.
_
O Jesu, born of Virgin bright,
All glory be to thee,
With Father and with Paraclete,
Through all eternity.
Amen.

[Versum 2]
V. God hath chosen her and forechosen her,
R. And hath made her to dwell in His tabernacle.

[Ant 2]
Let us this day keep * right heartily the solemn Feast of the Most Holy Rosary of Mary the Mother of God, that she may pray for us to our Lord Jesus Christ.

[Lectio Prima]
!Sir 24:17-28
v. I was exalted like a cedar in Libanus, and as a cypress tree on mount Sion. I was exalted like a palm tree in Cades, and as a rose plant in Jericho.

[Responsory Tertia]
R.br. Holy Mother of God, * Mary always a Virgin.
R. Holy Mother of God, * Mary always a Virgin.
V. Intercede for us with the Lord our God.
R. Mary always a Virgin.
&Gloria
R. Holy Mother of God, * Mary always a Virgin.
_
V. After childbirth thou still remainest a Virgin.
R. Mother of God, pray for us.

[Capitulum Sexta]
!Sir 39:19
v. Send forth flowers, as the lily, and yield a smell, and bring forth leaves in grace, and praise with canticles, and bless the Lord in his works.
$Deo gratias

[Responsory Sexta]
R.br. After childbirth * thou still remainest a Virgin.
R. After childbirth * thou still remainest a Virgin.
V. Mother of God, pray for us.
R. Thou still remainest a Virgin.
&Gloria
R. After childbirth * thou still remainest a Virgin.
_
V. O Holy Mother of God,
R. Thou art become beautiful and gentle in thy gladness.

[Responsory Nona]
R.br. O Holy * Mother of God.
R. O Holy * Mother of God.
V. Thou art become beautiful and gentle in thy gladness.
R. Mother of God.
&Gloria
R. O Holy * Mother of God.
_
V. God hath chosen her and forechosen her.
R. And hath made her to dwell in His tabernacle.

[Hymnus Vespera 3]
v. The gladness of thy motherhood,
The anguish of thy suffering,
The glory now that crowns thy brow,
O Virgin-Mother, we would sing.
_
Hail, blessed Mother, full of joy
In thy consent, thy visit too;
Joy in the birth of Christ on earth,
Joy in him lost and found anew.
_
Hail, sorrowing in his agony—
The blows, the thorns that pierced his brow;
The heavy wood, the shameful rood—
Yea! Queen and chief of martyrs thou.
_
Hail, in the triumph of thy Son,
The quickening flames of Pentecost;
Shining a Queen in light serene,
When all the world is tempest-tost.
_
O come, ye nations, roses bring,
Culled from these mysteries divine,
And for the Mother of your King
With loving hands your chaplets twine.
_
We lay our homage at thy feet,
Lord Jesus, thou the Virgin's Son,
With Father and with Paraclete,
Reigning while endless ages run.
Amen.

[Ant 3]
Blessed Mother * and Inviolate Maiden, Glorious Queen of the World, may all that keep the solemn Feast of thy Most Holy Rosary feel the might of thine assistance.
