[Rank]
Maternitatis Beatae Mariae Virginis;;Duplex 2 classis;;5.1;;ex C11

[Rank1960]
Maternitatis Beatae Mariae Virginis;;Duplex 2 classis;;5;;ex C11

[Rule]
ex C11;
9 lectiones
Psalmi Dominica
Antiphonas horas
Doxology=Nat

[Ant Vespera]
Blessed art thou, * O Virgin Mary, who didst bear the Creator of all things.;;109
Thou didst bring him forth * who made thee, and remainest a Virgin for ever.;;112
When I was a little one, * I pleased the Most High, and from my womb I have brought forth God and man.;;121
Daughter, thou art blessed * of the Lord: for by thee we have partaken of the fruit of life.;;126
The daughters of Sion, * saw her, and called her blessed; and the queens praised her.;;147

[Capitulum Vespera]
!Sir 24:12-13
v. He that made me, rested in my tabernacle, and he said to me: Let thy dwelling be in Jacob, and thy inheritance in Israel, and take root in my elect.
$Deo gratias

[Versum 1]
V. Blessed art thou among women.
R. And blessed is the fruit of thy womb.

[Ant 1]
Let us celebrate * with joy the Maternity of blessed Mary ever Virgin.

[Oratio]
O God, who didst will that, at the announcement of an Angel, thy Word should take flesh in the womb of the Blessed Virgin Mary, grant to us thy suppliants, that we who believe her to be truly the Mother of God may be helped by her intercession with thee.
$Per eumdem

[Invit]
Let us celebrate the Motherhood of the Blessed Virgin Mary: * Let us worship Christ her Son, our Lord.

[Hymnus Matutinum]
v. In heaven's court the choice was weighed,
And fixed upon the Blessed Maid,
Whence there was born, by God's decree,
Christ's ransoming humanity.
_
And so this Virgin-Mother bore
Him who to save us suffered sore,
Whose life-blood there the earth bedewed
Where he redeemed us on the Rood.
_
Let anxious fears from man depart,
And hope give joy to every heart,
For with her Son she e'er will plead
That he our tears and prayers may heed.
_
He welcometh his Mother's plea,
And listeneth right graciously;
Let his, like him, love her indeed,
And seek her help for human need.
_
All glory to the Trinity
Who made the Virgin's womb to be
A Shrine for Christ's humanity,
To whom be praise eternally. 
Amen.

[Lectio1]
Lesson from the book of Ecclesiasticus
!Sir 24:5-11
5 I came out of the mouth of the most High, the firstborn before all creatures:
6 I made that in the heavens there should rise light that never faileth, and as a cloud I covered all the earth:
7 I dwelt in the highest places, and my throne is in a pillar of a cloud.
8 I alone have compassed the circuit of heaven, and have penetrated into the bottom of the deep, and have walked in the waves of the sea,
9 And have stood in all the earth: and in every people,
10 And in every nation I have had the chief rule:
11 And by my power I have trodden under my feet the hearts of all the high and low: and in all these I sought rest, and I shall abide in the inheritance of the Lord.

[Responsory1]
R. O Holy Virgin Mary, happy art thou, and right worthy of all praise; 
* For out of thee rose the Sun of righteousness, even Christ our God, by whom we are saved and redeemed. 
V. Let us celebrate with joy the Motherhood of the Blessed Virgin Mary.
R. For out of thee rose the Sun of righteousness, even Christ our God, by whom we are saved and redeemed. 

[Lectio2]
!Sir 24:12-16
12 Then the creator of all things commanded, and said to me: and he that made me, rested in my tabernacle,
13 And he said to me: Let thy dwelling be in Jacob, and thy inheritance in Israel, and take root in my elect.
14 From the beginning, and before the world, was I created, and unto the world to come I shall not cease to be, and in the holy dwelling place I have ministered before him.
15 And so was I established in Sion, and in the holy city likewise I rested, and my power was in Jerusalem.
16 And I took root in an honourable people, and in the portion of my God his inheritance, and my abode is in the full assembly of saints.

[Responsory2]
R. From thee, still maiden undefiled, the Saviour came a little Child: 
* He the Lord who ruleth o'er earth and o'er heaven for ever, being made man, was enclosed in the blest sides of thy womb. 
V. Blessed art thou among women, and blessed is the Fruit of thy womb.
R. He the Lord who ruleth o'er earth and o'er heaven for ever, being made man, was enclosed in the blest sides of thy womb. 

[Lectio3]
!Sir 24:17-23
17 I was exalted like a cedar in Libanus, and as a cypress tree on mount Sion.
18 I was exalted like a palm tree in Cades, and as a rose plant in Jericho:
19 As a fair olive tree in the plains, and as a plane tree by the water in the streets, was I exalted.
20 I gave a sweet smell like cinnamon. and aromatical balm: I yielded a sweet odour like the best myrrh:
21 And I perfumed my dwelling as storax, and galbanum, and onyx, and aloes, and as the frankincense not cut, and my odour is as the purest balm.
22 I have stretched out my branches as the turpentine tree, and my branches are of honour and grace.
23 As the vine I have brought forth a pleasant odour: and my flowers are the fruit of honour and riches.

[Responsory3]
R. Many daughters have gotten riches, but thou excellest them all: 
* O holy Mother of God, thou art become beautiful and gentle in thy gladness. 
V. May all that are keeping holy-day in honour of thy blessed Motherhood feel the might of thine assistance. 
R. O holy Mother of God, thou art become beautiful and gentle in thy gladness. 
&Gloria
R. O holy Mother of God, thou art become beautiful and gentle in thy gladness. 

[Lectio4]
A Sermon of St. Leo the Pope
!Sermon 1 on the Nativity of the Lord
His Mother was chosen a Virgin of the kingly lineage of David, and when she was to grow heavy with the sacred Child, her soul had already conceived him before her body. She learned the counsel of God announced to her by the Angel, lest the unwonted events should alarm her. The future Mother of God knew what was to be wrought in her by the Holy Ghost, and that her modesty was absolutely safe. For why should she, unto whom was promised all sufficient strength through the power of the Highest, have felt hopeless merely because of the unexampled character of such a conception? She believeth, and her belief is confirmed by the attestation of a miracle which hath already been wrought. The fruitfulness of Elizabeth, before unhoped for, is brought forward that she might not doubt that he who had given conception unto her that was barren, would give the same unto her that was Virgin. And so the Word of God, the Son of God, who was in the beginning with God, by whom all things were made, and without whom was not anything made that was made, to deliver man from eternal death, was made man.

[Responsory4]
R. Let us tell again of the right worthy Motherhood of the glorious Virgin Mary: 
* The same is she whose lowliness the Lord regarded, she who by the message of an Angel conceived the Saviour of the world. 
V. Let us sing praise to Christ on this the solemn Feastday of the wondrous Mother of God. 
R. The same is she whose lowliness the Lord regarded, she who by the message of an Angel conceived the Saviour of the world. 

[Lectio5]
!Sermon 2 on the Nativity of the Lord
Our Lord Jesus Christ, descending from his throne in heaven, but leaving not that glory which he hath with the Father, cometh into this lower world by being born after a new order and in a new birth. He cometh after a new order, in that he who is unseen among his own, was seen among us; the Incomprehensible was fain to be comprehended, and he that is from everlasting to everlasting began to be in time. He was the Offspring of a new birth; conceived of a maiden, without the passion of any fleshly father, without any breach of his Mother's virginity, since such a birth beseemed the coming Saviour of mankind, who was to have in him the nature of man's being, and to be free of any defilement of man's flesh. Though he sprung not as we spring, yet is his nature as our nature; we believe that he is free from the use and custom of men; but it was the power of God which wrought that a maiden should conceive, that a maiden should bring forth, and yet abide a maiden still.

[Responsory5]
R. Blessed art thou of the Lord, O daughter, for through thee have we been given to eat of the tree of life: 
* Thou, without example before thee, didst make thyself well-pleasing in the sight of our Lord Jesus Christ. 
V. Despise not our petitions in our necessities, but deliver us from all dangers, O holy Mother of God.
R. Thou, without example before thee, didst make thyself well-pleasing in the sight of our Lord Jesus Christ.

[Lectio6]
From the Acts of Pope Pius XI
_
In the year 1931, amid the applause of the whole Catholic world, solemn rites were celebrated to mark the completion of the fifteen centuries which had elapsed since the Council of Ephesus, moving against the Nestorian heresy, had acclaimed the blessed Virgin Mary, of whom Jesus was born, as Mother of God. This acclamation had been made by the Fathers of the Church under the leadership of Pope Celestine. Pius XI, as Supreme Pontiff, wished to commemorate the notable event and to give lasting proof of his devotion to Mary. Now there had existed for many years in Rome a grand memorial to the proclamation of Ephesus, the triumphal arch in the basilica of Saint Mary Major on the Esquiline Hill. This monument had already been adorned by a previous pontiff, Sixtus III, with mosaics of marvelous workmanship, now falling to pieces from the decay of the passing ages. Pius XI, therefore, out of his own munificence, caused these to be restored most exquisitely and with them the transept of the basilica. In an Encyclical Letter Pius set forth also the true history of the Council of Ephesus, and expounded fervently and at great length the doctrine of the prerogatives of the Blessed Virgin Mary as Mother of God. He did this that the doctrine of this lofty mystery might sink more deeply into the hearts of the faithful. In it he set forth Mary, the Mother of God, blessed among women, and the most holy Family of Nazareth as the exemplars to be followed above all others, as models of the dignity and holiness of chaste wedlock, as patterns of the holy education to be given youth. Finally that no liturgical detail be lacking, he decreed that the feast of the Divine Motherhood of the Blessed Virgin Mary be celebrated annually on the 11th day of October by the universal Church with a proper Mass and Office under the rite of a double of the second class.

[Responsory6]
R. Blessed art thou among women, and blessed is the Fruit of thy womb: 
* Whence is this to me, that the Mother of my Lord should come to me? 
V. He hath regarded the lowliness of his handmaiden, and he that is mighty hath magnified me.
R. Whence is this to me, that the Mother of my Lord should come to me?
&Gloria
R. Whence is this to me, that the Mother of my Lord should come to me?

[Lectio7]
From the Holy Gospel according to Luke
!Luke 2:43-51
In that time, having fulfilled the days, when they returned, the child Jesus remained in Jerusalem; and his parents knew it not. And so on.
_
A Homily of St. Bernard the Abbot
!Homilia 1. de Laud. Virg. Matris
Son, why hast thou thus dealt with us? Mary called God, the Lord of Angels, her son. Which of the angels would have dared to do so? It is enough for them, and they reckon it is a great thing, that, being naturally spirits, they should receive the grace of being made and called angels, as witness David: Who maketh spirits his angels. But Mary, knowing herself to be his Mother, doth boldly apply the word Son to that Majesty whom the angels do serve with awe; neither doth God despise to be called what he hath made himself. For a little after, the Evangelist saith: And he was subject unto them. Who to whom? God to men. I say that God, unto whom the angels are subject, and who is obeyed by the Principalities and Powers, was subject to Mary.

[Responsory7]
R. Blessed art thou, O Virgin Mary, Mother of God, thou that hast believed the Lord, for there hath been a performance in thee of those things which were told thee: 
* Therefore God hath blessed thee for ever. 
V. Grace is poured into thy lips; plead for us with the Lord our God.
R. Therefore God hath blessed thee for ever.

[Lectio8]
Marvel thou at both these things, and choose whether to marvel most at the sublime condescension of the Son, or at the sublime dignity of Mary. Either is amazing, either marvelous. That God should obey this woman, is a lowliness without parallel; that this woman should rule over God, an exaltation without match. In praise of virgins, and of virgins only, is it sung that These are they which follow the Lamb whithersoever he goeth. Of what praise then thinkest thou that she must be worthy who even leadeth the Lamb? O man, learn to obey. O earth, learn to submit. O dust, learn to keep down. It is of thy Maker that the Evangelist saith: And he was subject unto them. Blush, O proud ashes. God humbleth himself; and dost thou exalt thyself? God is subject unto men; and wilt thou, by striving to rule over men, set thyself before thy Maker?

[Responsory8]
R. Rejoice with me, all you that love the Lord, for in my lowliness I pleased the Most High, 
* And from my womb I brought forth God-made-Man. 
V. All generations shall call me blessed, for God hath regarded the lowliness of his handmaiden.
R. And from my womb I brought forth God-made-Man.
&Gloria
R. And from my womb I brought forth God-made-Man.

[Lectio9]
O happy Mary, lowly and virgin; and wondrous virginity, which motherhood destroyed not, but exalted; and wondrous lowliness, which the fruitful virginity took not away, but ennobled; and wondrous motherhood, which was both virgin and lowly. Which of them is not wondrous? which of them is not unexampled? and which of them doth not stand alone? The wonder would be if thou wert not puzzled at which to wonder most? motherhood in a virgin, or virginity in a mother; a motherhood so exalted, or lowliness in such exaltation. But indeed more marvelous than any one of these things is the combination of them all, and without all comparison, it is more excellent and more blessed to have received them all, than to have received any one of them alone. What wonder is it that God, of whom we see and read, that He is wonderful in his holy places, should have shown himself wonderful in his Mother? O ye that be married, honor this incorruption in corruptible flesh; O holy maidens, gaze in wonder at motherhood in a maid; O, all mankind, take pattern by the lowliness of the Mother of God.
&teDeum

[Ant Laudes]
Blessed art thou, * O Virgin Mary, who didst bear the Creator of all things.
Thou didst bring him forth * who made thee, and remainest a Virgin for ever.
When I was a little one, * I pleased the Most High, and from my womb I have brought forth God and man.
Daughter, thou art blessed * of the Lord: for by thee we have partaken of the fruit of life.
The daughters of Sion, * saw her, and called her blessed; and the queens praised her.

[Hymnus Laudes]
v. Mother of Almighty God!
Suppliant at thy feet we pray;
Shelter us from Satan’s fraud,
Safe beneath thy wing this day.
_
Twas by reason of our Fall,
In our first Forefather’s crime,
That the mighty Lord of all
Raised thee to thy rank sublime.
_
Oh then upon Adam’s race
Look thou with a pitying eye;
And entreat of Jesus grace,
Till He lay his anger by.
_
Honour, glory, virtue, merit,
Be to Thee, O Virgin’s Son!
With the Father and the Spirit,
While eternal ages run.
Amen.

[Versum 2]
V. The Root of Jesse hath budded; the Star hath risen out of Jacob. 
R. A Virgin hath brought forth the Saviour: O Lord our God, we praise thee.

[Ant 2]
Holy Mary * show thine aid to those in misery, strengthen the faint-hearted, comfort the sorrowful, pray for the people, mediate for the clergy, intercede for all women vowed to God; may all experience thy help who celebrate thy admirable Motherhood.

[Ant 3]
Thy maternity, * O Virgin Mother of God, announced joy to the whole world; for out of thee arose the sun of justice, Christ our God.
