[Rank]
St. Isidore the Farmer, Confessor;;Duplex;;2;;vide C5

[Oratio]
God of mercy, at the intercession of St. Isidore the Farmer, grant that we may not have feelings of pride, but may be helped by his merits and guided by his example to serve You always with the humility which pleases You.
$Per Dominum

[Commemoratio]
!Commemoration of Sts. Chrysanthus and Daria, Martyrs
@Commune/C3:Oratio proper
$Oremus
v. Lord, may Your holy Martyrs Chrysanthus and Daria assist us by their prayers. We offer them our homage; may we always experience their loving aid.
$Per Dominum

[Lectio94]
Isidore, born at Madrid, was employed as a plowman; but, besides being a farmer in this sense, he was truly a prosperous farmer, aware of his real needs, in that he knew how to enrich the field of his own soul with a crop of virtues. For he used to “seek first the Kingdom of God” by visiting the churches, especially those dedicated to the Blessed Virgin, early in the morning before he went out to work. Annoyed at the delays caused by these visits, his employer planned to rebuke him one morning. But from the vantage point he had taken, he saw Isidore between two Angels, each of whom was plowing for him with a team of oxen. Serving God in his brethren, Isidore used to distribute his wages to the needy. Once, when he had invited some poor people to a dinner, he was able to satisfy them all with the portion of food that had been saved for him. On another occasion, on a hot summer day, he made water spring up from the ground by striking it with a goad-stick, and thereby quenched his employer's thirst. At an advanced age he fell asleep in the Lord. He was buried in the cemetery of St. Andrew; but later his body, still incorrupt, was moved to the church and given a place of honor, and its honor was enhanced by miracles. After four hundred years Isidore was enrolled among the Saints by Gregory XV. Pope Pius XII declared him the Patron of farmers in the United States of America.
&teDeum

[Capitulum Laudes]
!Jac 5:7-8
v. Behold, the farmer waits for the precious fruit of the earth, being patient until it receives the early and the late rain. Do you also be patient; strengthen your hearts; for the coming of the Lord is at hand.
$Deo gratias

[Ant 2]
The sower went out * to sow his seed; and some fell upon good ground, and sprang up and yielded fruit a hundred-fold.

[Capitulum Sexta]
!Jac 5:11
v. Behold, we call them blessed who have endured. You have heard of the patience of Job, and you have seen the purpose of the Lord, how the Lord is merciful and compassionate.
$Deo gratias

[Capitulum Nona]
!Jac 5:16-18
v. For the unceasing prayer of a just man is of great avail. Elias was a man like ourselves, subject to the same infirmities; and he prayed earnestly that it might not rain upon the earth, and it did not rain for three years and six months. He prayed again, and the heavens gave rain and the earth brought forth its fruits.
$Deo gratias

[Ant 3]
Here is a man * who tilled the soil, taking Adam as his model from his youth, to serve the living God.
