[Ant Matutinum]
I have been set up * as King by Him on Sion, His holy mountain, proclaiming His decree.;;2
Thou hast crowned him * with glory and honor, O Lord, putting all things under His feet.;;8
Reach up * you ancient portals, that the King of glory may come in.;;23
V. All power has been given to me.
R. In heaven and on earth.
The Lord is enthroned * as King forever; may the Lord bless his people with peace.;;28
A tempered rod * is thy royal scepter; therefore shall nations praise thee forever and ever.;;44
Sing praise to our King * sing praise; for he is the great King over all earth.;;46
V. Give the Lord, you families of nations.
R. Give to the Lord glory and sovereignty.
In Him * shall all the tribes of the earth be blessed; all the nations shall proclaim His greatness.;;71
And I will make Him * the firstborn, highest of the kings of the earth.;;88(2-30)
His throne * shall be like the sun before Me; like the moon, which remains forever.;;88(31-38)
V. All the kings of the earth shall adore Him.
R. All the nations shall serve Him.

[Lectio5]
The foundation of this power and dignity of Our Lord is rightly indicated by Cyril of Alexandria. “Christ,” he says, “has dominion over all creatures, a dominion not seized by violence nor usurped, but his by essence and by nature.” His kingship is founded upon the ineffable hypostatic union. From this it follows not only that Christ is to be adored by angels and men, but that to him as man angels and men are subject, and must recognize his empire; by reason of the hypostatic union Christ has power over all creatures. But a thought that must give us even greater joy and consolation is this that Christ is our King by acquired, as well as by natural right, for he is our Redeemer. Would that they who forget what they have cost their Saviour might recall the words: “You were not redeemed with corruptible things, but with the precious blood of Christ, as of a lamb unspotted and undefiled.” We are no longer our own property, for Christ has purchased us “with a great price”; our very bodies are the “members of Christ.” Let Us explain briefly the nature and meaning of this lordship of Christ. It consists, We need scarcely say, in a threefold power which is essential to lordship. This is sufficiently clear from the scriptural testimony already adduced concerning the universal dominion of our Redeemer, and moreover it is a dogma of faith that Jesus Christ was given to man, not only as our Redeemer, but also as a law-giver, to whom obedience is due. Not only do the gospels tell us that he made laws, but they present him to us in the act of making them. Those who keep them show their love for their Divine Master, and he promises that they shall remain in his love. He claimed judicial power as received from his Father, when the Jews accused him of breaking the Sabbath by the miraculous cure of a sick man. “For neither doth the Father judge any man; but hath given all judgment to the Son.” In this power is included the right of rewarding and punishing all men living, for this right is inseparable from that of judging. Executive power, too, belongs to Christ, for all must obey his commands; none may escape them, nor the sanctions he has imposed.

[Lectio8]
!Tract. 115 in Joannem 18-36.
Jesus answered: My kingdom is not of this world: if my kingdom were of this world, then would my servants fight, that I should be delivered to the Jews; but now is my kingdom not from hence. This it is which was the will of our Good Master that we should know: but first we were to be shown the vanity of the opinion concerning his kingdom, entertained by men, whether Gentiles or Jews, from whom Pilate had heard that: as if the reason why he must be punished by death, were that he had affected a kingdom to which he had no right; or because the reigning are wont to look with an evil eye upon those destined to reign; and there were indeed need to beware lest his kingdom should be adverse either to the Romans or the Jews.

[Lectio9]
Now the Lord might have answered at once: My kingdom is not from hence: to the first question put by the governor, Art thou the King of the Jews? But in putting a question in return, namely whether he spake this of himself, or had been told it by others, it was his will to show by Pilate's reply that this had been laid up to him as a crime by the Jews in their conference with the Governor: thus laying open to us, the thoughts of men, which he knew: that they are vain: and to them after Pilate's answer, making a reply which was more reasonable and suitable to Jews and Gentiles: My kingdom is not of this world.
&teDeum

[Hymnus Laudes]
v. Christ’s flag unfurled in glory raised,
Triumphing o’er the serpent’s stings;
Come humbly forward all ye lands,
Applauding the great King of kings.
_
No force or threat doth he need use,
Not by coersion leadeth he;
Raised on the cross he draweth all,
With love unto his fruitful tree.
_
O! Thrice blest city of the Lord,
Wherein Christ ruleth without dearth;
Fervently she doth execute
His heavenly edicts to the earth,
_
No fiery weapon can e’er harm,
The peace ’stablished by Jesus’ hand;
In happiness and unity,
The ranks of Christ secure do stand.
_
A marriage blessed by faith in thee,
Yields virtuous offspring from the
womb;
Like seed in fertile soil doth grow,
In virtuous homes do children bloom.
_
We yearn and long to shine on us,
Thy light, O sweet and winsome King;
All thus submitted to thy reign,
To us, thy gift of peace do bring.
_
O Jesu! King of all the world,
Honour and glory be to thee;
With Father and with Paraclete,
Glory through all eternity.
Amen.
