[Rank]
Die VI infra Octavam Nativitatis;;Semiduplex;;2;;ex Sancti/12-25

[Rank1960]
Die sexta post Nativitatem;;Duplex II class;;5;;ex Sancti/12-25

[Rule]
ex Sancti/12-25;
9 lectiones

[Lectio1]
Lesson from the letter of St. Paul the Apostle to the Romans
!Rom 2:1-4
1 Wherefore thou art inexcusable, O man, whosoever thou art that judgest. For wherein thou judgest another, thou condemnest thyself. For thou dost the same things which thou judgest. 
2 For we know that the judgment of God is, according to truth, against them that do such things. 
3 And thinkest thou this, O man, that judgest them who do such things, and dost the same, that thou shalt escape the judgment of God? 
4 Or despisest thou the riches of his goodness, and patience, and longsuffering? Knowest thou not, that the benignity of God leadeth thee to penance?

[Lectio2]
!Rom 2:5-8
5 But according to thy hardness and impenitent heart, thou treasurest up to thyself wrath, against the day of wrath, and revelation of the just judgment of God.
6 Who will render to every man according to his works. 
7 To them indeed, who according to patience in good work, seek glory and honour and incorruption, eternal life: 
8 But to them that are contentious, and who obey not the truth, but give credit to iniquity, wrath and indignation.

[Lectio3]
!Rom 2:9-13
9 Tribulation and anguish upon every soul of man that worketh evil, of the Jew first, and also of the Greek. 
10 But glory, and honour, and peace to every one that worketh good, to the Jew first, and also to the Greek.
11 For there is no respect of persons with God. 
12 For whosoever have sinned without the law, shall perish without the law; and whosoever have sinned in the law, shall be judged by the law. 
13 For not the hearers of the law are just before God, but the doers of the law shall be justified. 

[Lectio4]
Sermon by St. Leo the Pope
!Sermon 6 on the Nativity of the Lord
In any day of the year, dearly beloved, whenever we make our meditations, we are mindful of the birth from a Virgin Mother of our Lord and Saviour. Whenever our souls are uplifted in the worship of our Maker, whether we sigh in supplication, rejoice in praise, or offer sacrifice, there is nothing which we more frequently or more confidently set our minds upon than the fact that God, the Son of God, begotten of the co-eternal Father, was also born by a human birth. But on this day his Nativity, which is to be adored both in heaven and on earth, is brought before us as at no other time. For today it is as though a new and radiant light is shining forth in the heavens, in such wise that the brightness of this wondrous mystery is perceived even by our senses. And not only do we call to mind what the Angel Gabriel said to the awe-stricken Mary, but in some sort we seem even to be present at that colloquy when she conceived of the Holy Ghost. And we marvel both at the promise made to her, and at her faith in that promise.

[Lectio5]
For as of today the Maker of the world was brought forth from a virginal womb, and he who made all things became the Son of her whom he had made. As of today the Word of God appeared in a garment of flesh, and that which was never beheld by men's eyes can now be even touched by their hands. As of today the shepherds learned from angelic voices that a Saviour was born in substance of our flesh and soul. And this same angelic message was a pattern to the pastors of the Lord's flock to preach the Gospel on this day, and to do it in such wise that we too may say with the heavenly hosts: Glory to God in the highest, and on earth peace to men of good will.

[Lectio6]
Verily the greatness of the gift bestowed upon us demandeth a reverence worthy of its splendour. For, as the blessed Apostle saith, we have received, not the spirit of the world, but the Spirit which is of God, that we may know the things that are given us from God. And him we can devoutly worship only by offering to him that which he bestoweth. And in the treasury of the Lord's bounty, what can we find so appropriate to the honour of the present Feast, as that peace which at the birth of the Lord was first proclaimed by the angelic choir? For peace it is which bringeth forth the children of God. Peace it is also which is the nurse of affection, the mother of unity, the rest of the blessed, and our eternal home. Peace it is whose proper work and special benefit is to join unto God those whom it separateth from the world.

[Lectio7]
From the Holy Gospel according to Luke
!Luke 2:15-20
In that time, the shepherds said one to another: Let us go over to Bethlehem, and~
let us see this word that is come to pass, which the Lord hath shewed to us. And~
they came with haste. And so on.
_
Homily by St. Ambrose, Bishop (of Milan.)
!Bk. ii. on Luke ii.
The shepherds came with haste. This is how every one cometh who is really~
earnestly seeking Christ. The shepherds believed the angel. Wilt not thou~
believe Father, Son, and Holy Ghost, Angels, Prophets, and Apostles? Here also~
remark how carefully every word in the Scripture is chosen. They came with haste~
to see this Word, (as the original text hath it. ) A Word, indeed; the Word of~
God. He that saw the Lord's Flesh, saw the Word, that is, God the Son.

[Lectio8]
Because the office of a shepherd is mean, think not meanly of the example of~
their faith. Verily, that which is poorest in learning is richest in faith. The~
Lord seeketh not for schools crowded with wise men, but for a people of a single~
heart unused to overlay and to disguise what they learn, by vain and superfluous~
adornments. He will have straightforwardness rather than vain-glory.

[Responsory8]
R. How is the King of heaven attended? He that containeth the world is laid in a~
stable
* Lying in a manger, reigning in heaven.
V. Unto us is born, this day, in the city of David, a Saviour, Which is Christ~
the Lord.
R. Lying in a manger, reigning in heaven.
&Gloria
R. Lying in a manger, reigning in heaven.

[Lectio9]
Think not meanly either of the shepherds' words. The shepherds strengthen the~
faith even of Mary; the shepherds lead God's people to His worship. For, all~
they that heard it, wondered at those things which were told them by the~
shepherds. But Mary kept all these things and pondered them in her heart. Let us~
learn the modesty of the Holy Virgin, that modesty of speech as of body, whereby~
she laid up in her heart the evidences of her faith.
&teDeum
