[Rank]
Feria sexta infra Hebdomadam IV post Octavam Pentecostes;;Feria;;1

[Rule]
Oratio Dominica

[Lectio1]
Lesson from the first book of Samuel
!1 Sam 20:1-3
1 But David fled from Najoth, which is in Ramatha, and came and said to Jonathan: What have I done? what is my iniquity, and what is my sin against thy father, that he seeketh my life?
2 And he said to him: God forbid, thou shalt not die: for my father will do nothing great or little, without first telling me: hath then my father hid this word only from me? no, this shall not be.
3 And he swore again to David. And David said: thy father certainly knoweth that I have found grace in thy sight, and he will say: Let not Jonathan know this, lest he be grieved. But truly as the Lord liveth, and thy soul liveth, there is but one step (as I may say) between me and death.

[Responsory1]
@Tempora/Pent01-2:Responsory1

[Lectio2]
!1 Sam 20:5-9
5 And David said to Jonathan: Behold tomorrow is the new moon, and I according to custom am wont to sit beside the king to eat: let me go then that I may be hid in the field till the evening of the third day.
6 If thy father look and inquire for me, thou shalt answer him: David asked me that he might run to Bethlehem his own city: because there are solemn sacrifices there for all his tribe.
7 If he shall say, It is well: thy servant shall have peace: but if he be angry, know that his malice is come to its height
8 Deal mercifully then with thy servant: for thou hast brought me thy servant into a covenant of the Lord with thee. But if there be any iniquity in me, do thou kill me, and bring me not in to thy father. 
9 And Jonathan said: Far be this from thee: for if I should certainly know that evil is determined by my father against thee, I could do no otherwise than tell thee. 

[Responsory2]
@Tempora/Pent01-2:Responsory2

[Lectio3]
!1 Sam 20:10-15
10 And David answered Jonathan: Who shall bring me word, if thy father should answer thee harshly concerning me?
11 And Jonathan said to David: Come and let us go out into the field. And when they were both of them gone out into the field, 
12 Jonathan said to David: O Lord God of Israel, if I shall discover my father's mind, tomorrow or the day after, and there be any thing good for David, and I send not immediately to thee, and make it known to thee, 
13 May the Lord do so and so to Jonathan and add still more. But if my father shall continue in malice against thee, I will discover it to thy ear, and will send thee away, that thou mayest go in peace, and the Lord be with thee, as he hath been with my father. 
14 And if I live, thou shalt shew me the kindness of the Lord: but if I die, 
15 Thou shalt not take away thy kindness from my house for ever

[Responsory3]
@Tempora/Pent01-2:Responsory3
