[Rank]
Dominica IV Post Pentecosten;;Semiduplex;;5

[Rule]
9 lectiones
Psalmi Dominica
Antiphonas horas
Symbolum Athanasium

[Ant 1]
So David prevailed * over the Philistine with a sling, and with a stone, in the name of the Lord.

[Versum 1]
V. Let the evening prayer ascend unto thee, O Lord.
R. And let there descend upon us thy mercy.

[Oratio]
Grant, O Lord, we beseech thee, that the course of this world may be so peaceably ordered by thy governance, that thy Church may joyfully serve thee in all godly quietness.
$Per Dominum.

[Lectio1]
Olvasmány Sámuel elsõ könyvébõl
!1 Sam 17:1-7
1 A filiszteusok hadba szólították csapataikat, és Júdában, Szocho közelében gyülekeztek, majd Szocho és Aszeka között, Efes-Dammim mellett ütötték fel a táborukat.
2 Saul és Izrael fiai is egybegyûltek, a Terebint-völgyben vertek tábort, és csatasorba álltak a filiszteusok ellen.
3 A filiszteusok az egyik hegyen, Izrael fiai a másik hegyen helyezkedtek el, úgy, hogy a völgy köztük terült el.
4 A filiszteusok soraiból elõlépett egy harcos. Góljátnak hívták, és Gátból való volt. Hat könyök és egy arasz volt a magassága,
5 a fejét bronzsisak fedte, és pikkelyes páncélt viselt; a páncél 5000 sékel bronzot nyomott.
6 A lábán bronz lábszárvédõ volt, a két válla közt meg bronz hajítódárda.
7 Lándzsája nyele olyan volt, mint egy zubolyfa, a lándzsája hegye meg 600 sékel vasat nyomott. Elõtte haladt a fegyverhordozója.

[Responsory1]
R. Prepare your hearts unto the Lord, and serve Him Only
* And He will deliver you out of the hand of your enemies.
V. Return unto Him with all your hearts, and put away the strange gods from among you.
R. And He will deliver you out of the hand of your enemies.

[Lectio2]
!1 Sam 17:8-12
8 Kiállt Izrael fiainak sorai elé és odakiáltott nekik: "Miért vonultok ki és álltok csatasorba? Hát nem filiszteus vagyok, ti meg nem Saul szolgái vagytok? Válasszatok ki magatok közül egy embert, s az jöjjön le hozzám.
9 Ha megmérkõzik velem és legyõz, a szolgáitok leszünk. Ha azonban én kerekedem felül és megölöm, ti lesztek a mi szolgáink és szolgáltok nekünk."
10 Aztán a filiszteus hozzátette: "Ma kihívtam párviadalra Izrael sorait. Állítsatok ki nekem egy embert, hadd küzdjünk meg egymással!"
11 Amikor Saul és egész Izrael meghallotta a filiszteus e szavait, aggodalom kerítette õket hatalmába és nagyon féltek.
12 Dávid egy Júdába, Betlehembe való, Izáj nevû efratitának volt a fia, akinek nyolc fia volt. Saul idejében ez az ember már öreg volt, sok év nyomta a vállát.

[Responsory2]
R. God, Which heareth all, even He sent His Angel, and took me from keeping my father's sheep, and
* Anointed me with the oil of His mercy.
V. The Lord That delivered me out of the mouth of the lion, and out of the paw of the bear
R. And anointed me with the oil of His mercy.

[Lectio3]
!1 Sam 17:13-16
13 Izáj három legidõsebb fia hadba vonult Saullal. A három fiát, aki hadba vonult, így hívták: a legidõsebbet Eliábnak, a másodikat Abinadabnak és a harmadikat Sammának.
14 Dávid volt a legfiatalabb. A három legidõsebb kivonult Saullal.
15 Dávid meg kilépett Saul szolgálatából és elment haza, hogy õrizze az apja nyáját Betlehemben.
16 A filiszteus reggel-este megjelent és kiállt, negyven napon át.
17 Izáj egyszer így szólt fiához, Dávidhoz: "Vidd el bátyáidnak ezt az efa pörkölt gabonát és ezt a tíz kenyeret, siess, menj el a bátyáidhoz a táborba.
18 Ezt a tíz darab sajtot meg vidd el a parancsnoknak. Érdeklõdj nála bátyáid hogyléte felõl és hozd el a zsoldjukat.
19 Saul és Izrael fiai a Terebint-völgyben hadakoznak a filiszteusokkal."
20 Dávid kora reggel fölkelt és a pásztorra bízta a nyájat. Aztán útra kelt és elment, amint Izáj meghagyta neki.

[Responsory3]
R. The Lord That delivered me out of the mouth of the lion, and out of the paw of the bear
* He will deliver me out of the hand of mine enemies.
V. God hath sent forth His mercy and His truth, and delivered my soul from among the lion's whelps.
R. He will deliver me out of the hand of mine enemies.
&Gloria
R. He will deliver me out of the hand of mine enemies.

[Lectio4]
from the Sermons of St Austin, Bishop [of Hippo.]
!Serm. 197. de Temp. circa med.
The children of Israel faced their enemies for forty days. These forty days, by reason of the four Seasons of the year, and of the four Continents of the globe, are a figure of this present life, during which the Christian world ceaseth not to be arrayed in battle against the devil and his angels, as it were against Goliath and the army of the Philistines. Neither can they hope to overcome him, were it not for the true David, that is, Christ, with His staff, that is, with the Mystery of His Cross. For before Christ came, my dearly beloved brethren, the devil was at large. But when Christ came, He did to him what is written in the Gospel, where it is said "How can one enter into a strong man's house, and spoil his goods, except he first bind the strong man " Christ therefore came, and bound the devil.

[Responsory4]
R. Saul hath slain his thousands, and David his ten thousands.
* Because the hand of the Lord was with him, he smote the Philistine, and took away the reproach from Israel.
V. Is not this David? Did they not sing one to another of him in dances, saying Saul hath slain his thousands, and David his ten thousands?
R. Because the hand of the Lord was with him, he smote the Philistine, and took away the reproach from Israel.

[Lectio5]
But some man will say: If he is bound, why is he still so powerful? It is quite true, my dearly beloved brethren, that he is very powerful but his lordship is over the lukewarm and the careless, and such as fear not God in truth. He is chained up like a dog, and can only bite those who are such suicidal fools as to go within the length of his tether. Look you, my brethren, what a dolt a man must be who getteth himself bitten by a dog that is chained up. Let not the desires and lusts of the world draw thee within reach of him, and he will not be able to get at thee. He can bark, he can whine but he can only bite those who are willing to be bitten. He assaileth us, not by violence, but by persuasion he asketh, not seizeth, our consent.

[Responsory5]
R. Ye mountains of Gilboa, let there be no dew, neither let there be rain upon you
* For there are the mighty of Israel fallen
V. All ye mountains that stand round about, the Lord look upon you but let Him pass by Gilboa
R. For there are the mighty of Israel fallen

[Lectio6]
David, then, came, and found the Jewish people set in battle array against the devil and since there was no one who dared to go to single combat, he, who was a type of Christ, sallied out to the battle, took his staff in his hand, and went forth against Goliath. In him was a shadow of a substance which is in Christ. Christ, the true David, when He went forth to fight against the spiritual Goliath, that is to say, against the devil, went forth bearing His Cross. Ye see, my brethren, in what part it was that David smote Goliath it was upon that forehead whereon the Cross had never been traced. And as the staff of David was a figure of the Cross of Christ, so was the stone wherewith the giant was smitten a figure of the Lord Himself.

[Responsory6]
R. Thus saith the Lord I took thee out of thy father's house, and appointed thee to be ruler over My people, over Israel.
* And I was with thee whithersoever thou wentest, to establish thy kingdom for ever.
V. And I have made thee a great name, like unto the name of the great men that are in the earth and have caused thee to rest from all thine enemies.
R. And I was with thee whithersoever thou wentest, to establish thy kingdom for ever.
&Gloria
R. And I was with thee whithersoever thou wentest, to establish thy kingdom for ever.

[Lectio7]
Evangélium szent Lukács Evangélista kõnyvébõl
!Luke 5:1-11
Amikor egyszer a Genezáret tavánál állt, nagy tömeg sereglett oda hozzá, hogy hallgassa az Isten szavát. Látta, hogy a tó partján két bárka vesztegel. A halászok kiszálltak, és a hálót mosták. És így tovább
_
Homily by St Ambrose, Bishop of Milan.
!Bk. iv. on Luke v.
When the Lord wrought so many works of healing, neither time nor place could restrain the people from seeking health. Evening came, and they still followed Him He went down to the lake, and they still pressed upon Him and therefore He entered into Peter's ship. This is that ship, which spiritually up to this very hour, according to the expression of Matthew, is buffeted by tempests, but still, according to Luke, is filled with fishes, this signifying, that, for a while, to labour is present to the Church, but, hereafter, it shall be to rejoice. The fishes are they which swim in the troublous waters of human life. In this ship also spiritually doth Christ, for His disciples, still sleep, and still command for He sleepeth for the lukewarm, and watcheth for the perfect.

[Responsory7]
@Tempora/Pent01-3:Responsory1

[Lectio8]
O fear, then, for the ship where wisdom steereth, false teaching is not known, and faith swelleth the sails. How shall she be troubled, whose Lord is Himself the Church's sure Foundation It is where faith is weak that there is fear where love is perfect, there there is safety. To many it is commanded to loose their nets, but to Peter only to " Launch out into the deep," that is, into the depths of doctrine. What indeed is there so deep, as to gaze upon the depth of all riches, to recognise the Son of God, and to take up the confession of His Divine generation This is a thing which the mind is not able to grasp by the searchings of man's reason, but which is embraced by an hearty faith.

[Responsory8]
@Tempora/Pent01-0:Responsory8

[Lectio9]
Nor albeit, it is not given unto me to know how He was born, yet that born He was, I may not be ignorant. What the order of His generation was, I know not, but the Source of His generation I acknowledge. None hath beheld the Begetting of the Son of God by the Father, but the Church hath stood by to hear the Father testify that this is His beloved Son. (Luke iii. 22.) If we believe not God, whom shall we believe For whatsoever we believe cometh either by sight or by hearing sight is oftentimes deceived, but "faith cometh by hearing." (Rom. x. 17.)
&teDeum

[Ant 2]
Jesus entered into the ship, * and sat down, and taught the people. Alleluia.

[Versum 2]
V. The Lord reigneth He is clothed with majesty.
R. The Lord is clothed with strength, and hath girded Himself with power.

[Ant 3]
Master, we have toiled all night, * and have taken nothing; nevertheless at thy word I will let down the net.

[Versum 3]
V. Let my prayer, O Lord, be set forth.
R. As incense before thee.
