[Rank]
Dominica de Passionis;;I classis Semiduplex;;6

[Rule]
9 lectiones

[Ant 1]
I am One * That bear witness of Myself, and the Father That sent Me beareth witness of Me.

[Oratio]
We beseech thee, Almighty God, mercifully to look upon this thy family, that by thy great goodness they may be governed and preserved evermore, both in body and soul.
$Per Dominum

[Lectio1]
Olvasmány Jeremiás próféta könyvébõl
!Jer 1:1-10
1 Jeremiásnak, Hilkija fiának a szavai, aki abból a papi családból származott, amely a Benjamin földjén levõ Anatotban lakott.
2 Az Úr Jozijának, Ámon fiának, Júda királyának napjaiban, uralkodásának 13. esztendejében intézte hozzá szózatait,
3 aztán Jojákimnak, Jozija fiának, Júda királyának napjaiban is, egészen addig, míg Cidkijának, Jozija fiának, Júda királyának 11. esztendeje el nem telt, amikor is fogságba vitték Jeruzsálemet, az ötödik hónapban.
4 Így szólt hozzám az Úr:
5 "Mielõtt megalkottalak anyád méhében, már ismertelek; mielõtt megszülettél volna, fölszenteltelek, és prófétául rendeltelek a nemzetek javára."
6 Erre azt mondtam: "Jaj, Uram Isten! Nézd, nem tudok én beszélni, hiszen még ifjú vagyok."
7 De az Úr így válaszolt: "Ne mondd azt, hogy ifjú vagyok, hanem menj el azokhoz, akikhez küldelek, és mondd el nekik mind, amit parancsolok.
8 Ne félj tõlük, mert veled vagyok, és megoltalmazlak - az Úr mondja ezt neked."
9 Akkor az Úr kinyújtotta kezét, megérintette ajkamat és így szólt hozzám:
10 "Nézd, ajkadra adom szavaimat, ma nemzetek és országok fölé állítalak, hogy gyomlálj és rombolj, pusztíts és szétszórj, építs és ültess."

[Responsory1]
R. These are the days to be observed of you in their seasons.
* In the fourteenth day at even is the Lord's Passover, and on the fifteenth day ye shall keep a Feast unto the Lord, the Most High. 
V. The Lord spake unto Moses, saying Speak unto the children of Israel, and say unto them
R. In the fourteenth day at even is the Lord's Passover, and on the fifteenth day ye shall keep a Feast unto the Lord, the Most High.

[Lectio2]
!Jer 1:11-16
11 Aztán az Úr szólt és megkérdezte tõlem: "Mit látsz, Jeremiás?" Erre így feleltem: "Korán virágzó fának ágát látom."
12 Az Úr erre azt mondta: "Jól látod. Mert jó korán virrasztok szavam fölött, hogy beteljesítsem."
13 Másodszor is szólt hozzám az Úr: "Mit látsz még?" Ezt feleltem: "Forró fazekat látok, amelynek tartalma észak felõl buzog."
14 Erre az Úr így szólt: Észak felõl támad a veszedelem ennek a földnek minden lakójára,
15 mert összehívom észak országait - mondja az Úr. El is jönnek, és mindegyikük felállítja trónját Jeruzsálem kapui elõtt, sõt a falai mentén körös-körül, és Júda minden városa körül.
16 Akkor majd kimondom ellenük ítéletemet minden gonoszságukért, amiért elhagytak: idegen isteneknek mutattak be illatáldozatot, és a saját kezük mûveit imádták.

[Responsory2]
R. They be increased that trouble me, and that say There is no help for him in his God.
* Arise, O Lord! Save me, O my God!
V. Lest mine enemy say I have prevailed against him.
R. Arise, O Lord! Save me, O my God!

[Lectio3]
!Jer 1:17-19; 2:1-3
17 Azért hát övezd fel derekadat: kelj föl és mondd el nekik mind, amit parancsolok neked. Ne ijedj meg tõlük, különben én ijesztelek meg a szemük elõtt.
18 Én meg a mai napon erõs várossá teszlek; vasoszloppá és ércfallá az egész ország ellenében; Júda királyai és fõemberei ellen, papjai és egész népe ellen.
19 Harcolni fognak ugyan ellened, de nem gyõznek le, mert veled vagyok és megszabadítalak - mondja az Úr.
1 Így szólt hozzám az Úr:
2 Menj, és kiáltsd Jeruzsálem fülébe: Ezt mondja az Úr: Még emlékszem ifjúkorod hûségére, és jegyességed idejének szeretetére. Hogy követtél akkor a pusztában, azon a földön, amelyen nem szoktak vetni!
3 Izrael akkor az Úr szent tulajdona volt, az õ aratásának elsõ termése. Azok, akik enni próbáltak belõle, mind megbûnhõdtek, bajok szakadtak rájuk - mondja az Úr.

[Responsory3]
R. How long shall mine enemy be exalted over me?
* Consider, and hear me, O Lord my God!
V. Those that trouble me will rejoice when I am moved but I have trusted in thy mercy.
R. Consider and hear me, O Lord my God!
&Gloria
R.How long shall mine enemy be exalted over me? * Consider and hear me, O Lord my God!

[Lectio4]
From the Sermons of Pope St Leo (the Great.)
!9th for Lent.
Dearly beloved brethren, we know that of all the solemn Feasts which are kept by Christians the Passover is the chief. The ordinances of the whole rest of the year are ordered to the end of preparing us to come to this one in worthy and meet manner. But these days, which now are, are they which ought most especially to stir up a godly mind in us, seeing that they are they which are nearest to that most glorious mystery of God's mercy. In these days the holy Apostles, taught by the Holy Ghost, ordered the chiefest store of Fasting, that we, sharing His Cross with Christ, might, albeit we are what we are, in Him, do some of the same things which He did for our sakes, and so realise the saying of the Apostle If we suffer with Him, we shall be also glorified together.'' (Rom. viii. 17.) He that is partaker of the sufferings (2 Cor. i. 7) of the Lord hath a sure and certain hope of that blessedness which He hath promised unto us.

[Responsory4]
R. Thou art my God be not far from me for trouble is near;
* For there is none to help.
V. But be not thy strength far from me; O Lord, haste thee to help me.
R. For trouble is near; for there is none to help.

[Lectio5]
Dearly beloved brethren, there is no man to whom the state of the age in which he liveth denieth a share in this glory of partaking, first the sufferings, and then the triumph and joy, of Christ. It is not as though this time of peace were barren in occasions of valour. The Apostle giveth us this warning All that will live godly in Christ Jesus shall suffer persecution. (2 Tim. iii. 12.) And therefore, as long as godliness is watchful, persecution will never be asleep. The Lord Himself saith in one of His own exhortations He that taketh not his cross, and followeth after Me, is not worthy of Me. (Matth. x. 38.) And we must not doubt that these words of Christ apply not only to His immediate disciples, to whom He spoke them, but belong to all the faithful and to the whole Church, who, whosoever be the believers of whom she is for the time composed on earth, heareth in these words the way to be saved which her Lord hath appointed for them.

[Responsory5]
R. I was cast upon thee from the womb; Thou art my God from my mother's belly; be not far from me.
* For trouble is near, and there is none to help.
V. Save me from the lion's mouth, and mine affliction from the horns of the unicorns.
R. For trouble is near, and there is none to help.

[Lectio6]
As then, it is the duty of the whole body of the Church to live godly, so is it her right at all times to be a-bearing of her Master's Cross, and that not only in her general body, but individually in the person of each one of her members, who differ every one from another in the way in which they have to carry it, and the shape in which it is laid upon them. The one common name for all their carrying of the Cross is persecution, but the manner of his wrestling is special to each; and there is often more danger in the ambush than in the pitched field of battle. Blessed Job, who had tried both the goods and the ills of this world, said Is not the life of man upon earth a warfare? (vii. 1.) The attack upon the faithful soul arrayeth itself not alone in bodily torture and punishment; yea, when the limbs are sound enough, fearful is the ravage that threateneth us when the lusts of the flesh unman us. But when the flesh lusteth against the spirit, and the spirit against the flesh (Gal. iv. 7) the reasonable mind findeth her reinforcement in the helpful Cross of Christ, and though she be lured by foul cravings, yet refuseth to give her consent, for God maketh her pure thoughts to tremble for fear of Him. (Ps. cxviii. 120.)

[Responsory6]
R. O Lord, my trouble is near, and there is none to help me; or ever they pierce my hands and my feet, save me from the lion's mouth!
* That I may declare thy Name unto my brethren.
V. O God, deliver my soul from the sword, and my darling from the power of the dog.
R. That I may declare thy Name unto my brethren.
&Gloria
R. O Lord, my trouble is near, and there is none to help me; or ever they pierce my hands and my feet, save me from the lion's mouth! * That I may declare thy Name unto my brethren.

[Lectio7]
Evangélium szent János Apostol kõnyvébõl
!John 8:46-59
Azon idõben mondá Jézus a zsidók seregeinek: Ki vádolhat bûnnel közületek? Ha meg az igazságot hirdetem, miért nem hisztek nekem? És így tovább.
_
Homily by Pope St Gregory (the Great)
!15th on the Gospels.
Dearly beloved brethren, consider the gentleness of God. He came to take away sins, and He saith Which of you convinceth Me of sin? He Who, through the might of His Godhead, was able to justify sinners, was contented to show by argument that He was not Himself a sinner. But exceeding dread is that which followeth. He that is of God heareth God's words; ye, therefore, hear them not, because ye are not of God. If, then, whosoever is of God heareth God's words, and whosoever is not of Him cannot hear His words, let each one ask himself if he, in the ear of his heart, heareth God's words, and understandeth Whose words they are? The Truth commandeth us to long for a Fatherland in heaven, to bridle the lusts of the flesh, to turn away from the glory of the world, to seek no man's goods, and to give away our own.

[Responsory7]
R. O Lord, I go mourning all the day long, for my soul is filled with a loathsome disease
* They also that sought after my life have used violence against me.
V. My friends and my neighbours draw near, and stand over against me; and they that are nearest to me stand afar off.
R. They also that sought after my life have used violence against me.

[Lectio8]
Let each of you, therefore, think within himself if this voice of God is heard in the ear of his heart, and if he knoweth already if he is of God. For some there be, whom it pleaseth not to hear the commandments of God even with their bodily ears. And some there be, who receive the same with their bodily ears, but whose heart is far from them. And some also there be, who hear the words of God with joy, so that they are moved thereby even to tears; but when their fit of weeping is past they turn again to iniquity. They hear not the words of God, who despise to do them. Therefore, dearly beloved brethren, call up your own life before your mind's eye, and then ponder with trembling those awful words which the mouth of the Truth spake Ye therefore hear them not, because ye are not of God.

[Responsory8]
R. O Lord, hide not thy face from thy servant
* For I am in trouble; hear me speedily.
V. Draw nigh unto my soul, and redeem it; deliver me, because of mine enemies.
R. For I am in trouble; hear me speedily.

[Lectio9]
The Truth speaketh these words concerning the reprobate; but the reprobate make manifest the same thing concerning themselves, by their evil works. Thus immediately followeth Then answered the Jews, and said unto Him Say we not well that Thou art a Samaritan, and hast a devil? But let us hear what the Lord said to this insult. I have not a devil, but I honour My Father, and ye do dishonour Me. The Lord said I have not a devil, but He did not say I am not a Samaritan, for in a sense a Samaritan He was indeed, since the word Samaritan, in the Hebrew tongue, signifieth, being interpreted, a Watcher, and the Lord is that Watcher, of Whom the Psalmist saith (cxxviii. 2) that unless He keep the city, other watchman waketh but in vain. He also is that Watchman unto Whom crieth Isaiah (xxi. 11): Watchman, what of the night? Watchman, what of the night? Therefore the Lord said I have not a devil, but not I am not a Samaritan. Of the two things brought against Him He denied one; but by His silence, admitted the other.

[Responsory9]
R. O that my head were waters, and mine eyes a fountain of tears, that I might weep day and night! for my nearest brother hath supplanted me,
* And my neighbour hath walked with slanders against me.
V. Let their way be dark and slippery, and let the Angel of the Lord persecute them.
R. And my neighbour hath walked with slanders against me.
&Gloria
R. O that my head were waters, and mine eyes a fountain of tears, that I might weep day and night! for my nearest brother hath supplanted me, * And my neighbour hath walked with slanders against me.

[Ant Laudes]
O Lord, behold my affliction; * for the enemy hath magnified himself.
I called upon the Lord * in my distress; and He answered me, and set me at large.
O Lord, Thou hast pleaded the cause of my soul; * Thou hast redeemed my life, O Lord my God.
O My people, what have I done unto thee? * or wherein have I wearied thee? testify against Me.
Shall evil be recompensed for good? * for they have digged a pit for My soul.

[Capitulum Laudes]
!Heb 9:11-12
v. Testvérek: Krisztus azonban a ránk váró javak fõpapjaként jött el, s belépett abba a nagyobb és tökéletesebb sátorba, amelyet nem ember keze alkotott, vagyis nem ebbõl a világból való. Nem a bakok vagy borjak vérével, hanem saját vérével lépett be egyszer s mindenkorra a szentélybe, és örök megváltást szerzett.
$Deo gratias

[Ant 2]
Jesus said * unto the multitudes of the Jews and unto the Chief Priests He that is of God heareth God's words; ye, therefore, hear them not, because ye are not of God.

[Ant Prima]
I have not a devil; * but I honour My Father, and ye do dishonour Me, saith the Lord.

[Ant Tertia]
I seek not Mine Own glory; * there is One That seeketh and judgeth.

[Capitulum Tertia]
!Heb 9:11-12
v. Testvérek: Krisztus azonban a ránk váró javak fõpapjaként jött el, s belépett abba a nagyobb és tökéletesebb sátorba, amelyet nem ember keze alkotott, vagyis nem ebbõl a világból való. Nem a bakok vagy borjak vérével, hanem saját vérével lépett be egyszer s mindenkorra a szentélybe, és örök megváltást szerzett.
$Deo gratias

[Ant Sexta]
Amen, Amen, * I say unto you If a man keep My saying, he shall never see death.

[Capitulum Sexta]
!Heb 9:13-14
v. Ha ugyanis a bakok és bikák vére meg az üszõ hamva a tisztátalanokra hintve külsõleg tisztává teszi õket, mennyivel inkább megtisztítja lelkiismeretünket a holt cselekedetektõl Krisztus vére, aki az örök Lélek által saját magát adta tiszta áldozatul az Istennek, hogy az élõ Istennek szolgáljunk.
$Deo gratias

[Ant Nona]
Then took the Jews up stones * to cast at Him but Jesus hid Himself, and went out of the temple.

[Capitulum Nona]
!Heb 9:15
v. Ezért õ új szövetség közvetítõje. Elõbb azonban a régi szövetség korában elkövetett bûnök megváltásáért el kellett szenvednie a halált, hogy a meghívottak elnyerjék az örökké tartó örökséget.
$Deo gratias

[Capitulum Vespera]
!Heb 9:11-12
v. Krisztus azonban a ránk váró javak fõpapjaként jött el, s belépett abba a nagyobb és tökéletesebb sátorba, amelyet nem ember keze alkotott, vagyis nem ebbõl a világból való. Nem a bakok vagy borjak vérével, hanem saját vérével lépett be egyszer s mindenkorra a szentélybe, és örök megváltást szerzett.
$Deo gratias

[Ant 3]
Your father Abraham rejoiced to see My day * and he saw it, and was glad.
