[Rank]
Beatae Máriae Virginis Guadalupae;;Duplex;;3;;vide C11

[RankNewcal]
Beatae Mariae Virginis Guadalupae;;Duplex optional;;2.5;;vide C11

[Rule]
vide C11;
Psalmi Dominica
9 lectiones;
Doxology=Nat

[Ant Vespera]
Who is she that looketh forth as the morning, clear as the sun, fair as the moon, comely as Jerusalem?;;109
The daughters of Sion * saw her flowering with blossoms of roses, and called her most blessed;;112
Flowers have appeared * in our land: we praise thee, Holy Mother of God.;;121
Sing ye to him * a new canticle: Declare his glory among the Gentiles;;126
Thou art * the glory of Jerusalem, thou art the joy of Israel, thou art the honour of thy people.;;147

[Capitulum Vespera]
!Prov 8:34-36
v. Blessed is the man that heareth me, and that watcheth daily at my gates, and waiteth at the posts of my doors.He that shall find me, shall find life, and shall have salvation from the Lord
$Deo gratias

[Versum 1]
V. He hath not done in like manner to every nation.
R. And his judgments he hath not made manifest to them.

[Ant 1]
I have chosen and made holy this place * That my name may be there, and mine eyes, and my heart may remain there for all the days.

[Ant 3]
Lift up thine eyes * round about, and see: all they gather themselves together, they come to thee: thy sons shall come from far, and thy daughters shall be nursed at thy side.

[Oratio]
v. O God, who hast placed us under the special patronage of the most Blessed Virgin Mary, and hast been pleased to shower perpetual blessings upon us: grant to Thy suppliants; that, as we are brought joy on earth by the commemoration today, we may enjoy her sight in heaven.
$Per Dominum

[Ant Matutinum]
From the rising of the sun * until its setting, great is my name among the nations;;8
I was found * by them that did not seek me; I appeared openly to them that asked not after me;;18
Inventa sum * a non quaerentibus me; palam apparui iis, qui me non interrogabant;;23
V. The Lord hath declared his salvation.
R. He hath revealed his glory in the sight of the Gentiles.
And there appeared * a great wonder in heaven: a Woman clothed with the sun, and the moon under her feet;;44
The people that walked * in darkness have seen a great light: they that dwell in the land of the shadow of death, upon them hath the light shined;;45
All the ends * of the earth have seen the salvation of our God.;;86
V. We will go into his tabernacle.
R. We will adore in the place where his feet stood
The tabernacle of God * Mary, in the midst of his City, and she shall not be moved.;;95
Thou wentest forth * for the salvation of thy people: * for salvation with thy Christ;;96
Thou wentest forth * for the salvation of thy people: * for salvation with thy Christ;;97
V. Thy sons shall come from far.
R. And thy daughters shall be nursed at thy side.

[Lectio1]
Olvasmány Jézus Sírák fia könyvébõl
!Sir 25:5-13
5 The things that thou hast not gathered in thy youth, how shalt thou find them in thy old age?
6 O how comely is judgment for a grey head, and for ancients to know counsel!
7 O how comely is wisdom for the aged, and understanding and counsel to men of honour!
8 Much experience is the crown of old men, and the fear of God is their glory.
9 Nine things that are not to be imagined by the heart have I magnified, and the tenth I will utter to men with my tongue.
10 A man that hath joy of his children: and he that liveth and seeth the fall of his enemies.
11 Blessed is he. that dwelleth with a wise woman, and that hath not slipped with his tongue, and that hath not served such as are unworthy of him.
12 Blessed is he that findeth a true friend, and that declareth justice to an ear that heareth.
13 How great is he that findeth wisdom and knowledge! but there is none above him that feareth the Lord.

[Responsory1]
R. I have seen her as beautiful as a dove, rising up over streams of water: The fragrance of her clothes was immeasurable:
* As the flower of roses in the spring of the year, and as lilies by the rivers of waters, so did they cluster round about her.
V. Who is this, who ascends over the wilderness as pillars of smoke, perfumed with myrrh and frankincense?
R. As the flower of roses in the spring of the year, and as lilies by the rivers

[Lectio2]
!Sir 24:14-21
14 From the beginning, and before the world, was I created, and unto the world to come I shall not cease to be, and in the holy dwelling place I have ministered before him.
15 And so was I established in Sion, and in the holy city likewise I rested, and my power was in Jerusalem.
16 And I took root in an honourable people, and in the portion of my God his inheritance, and my abode is in the full assembly of saints.
17 I was exalted like a cedar in Libanus, and as a cypress tree on mount Sion.
18 I was exalted like a palm tree in Cades, and as a rose plant in Jericho:
19 As a fair olive tree in the plains, and as a plane tree by the water in the streets, was I exalted.
20 I gave a sweet smell like cinnamon. and aromatical balm: I yielded a sweet odour like the best myrrh:
21 And I perfumed my dwelling as storax, and galbanum, and onyx, and aloes, and as the frankincense not cut, and my odour is as the purest balm.

[Responsory2]
R. Who is she, who ascendeth as the breaking dawn, beautiful as the moon, clothed as the sun?
* Terrible as an army set in array?
V. Daughter of Sion, thou art entirely fair and sweet, beautiful as the moon, clothed as the sun.
R. Terrible as an army set in array?

[Lectio3]
!Sir 24:22-31
22 I have stretched out my branches as the turpentine tree, and my branches are of honour and grace.
23 As the vine I have brought forth a pleasant odour: and my flowers are the fruit of honour and riches.
24 I am the mother of fair love, and of fear, and of knowledge, and of holy hope.
25 In me is all grace of the way and of the truth, in me is all hope of life and of virtue.
26 Come over to me, all ye that desire me, and be filled with my fruits.
27 For my spirit is sweet above honey, and my inheritance above honey and the honeycomb.
28 My memory is unto everlasting generations.
29 They that eat me, shall yet hunger: and they that drink me, shall yet thirst.
30 He that hearkeneth to me, shall not be confounded: and they that work by me, shall not sin.
31 They that explain me shall have life everlasting.

[Responsory3]
R. Who is she that looketh forth as the morning, clear as the sun, fair as the moon, comely as Jerusalem?
* The daughters of Sion saw her and blest her; the queens also, and they did praise her.
V. As the flower of roses in the spring of the year, and as lilies by the rivers of waters, so did they cluster round about her.
R. The daughters of Sion saw her and blest her; the queens also, and they did praise her.
&Gloria
R. The daughters of Sion saw her and blest her; the queens also, and they did praise her.

[Lectio4]
In the year of our renewed salvation 1531, the Virgin Mother occasioned herself to appear to Juan Diego, a pious and undeveloped neophyte, in Mexico on Tepeyac hill, as ancient and constant tradition relates, and speaking very benevolently to him, commanded him to visit the Bishop to report that he must erect a holy shrine there. Juan de Zumarraga, the Bishop of that place, delayed a response, skillfully testing the truth: and he commanded the neophyte, again influenced by the vision and command of the Blessed Virgin, to repeat his mission with tears and prayers, that he might earnestly seek a sign, by which the great mother of God might show her will.

[Responsory4]
R. And there appeared a great wonder in heaven: a Woman clothed with the sun, and the moon under her feet,
* And upon her head is a crown of twelve stars.
V. The foundations thereof are in the holy mountains, the Lord loveth the gates of Sion above all the tabernacles of Jacob.
R. And upon her head is a crown of twelve stars.

[Lectio5]
While the neophyte traveled by a more distant way from Tepeyac hill, and hastening to call for a Mexican priest, so that the Last Sacraments would not be wanting for his uncle, who had been stricken with a deadly disease, the most kindly Virgin appeared to him a third time; informed the grieving man about his uncle’s health; and arranging beautiful roses in his tilma, recently flowering against the harshness of the place and the winter, she charged him to bring them to the Bishop. Diego yielded to the commands, and on his tilma, the roses having been dropped before the Bishop, the image of holy Mary, by which sight she entirely displayed herself on the hill near the city, was seen depicted in a miraculous way. By such a wonder the awestruck men duly desired to preserve the religious portrait in the bishop’s shrine: which, a little while after, with solemn ceremony was transferred to the shrine built on Tepeyac hill, shining forth for the conspicuous veneration of all peoples.

[Responsory5]
R. Who is she, who ascendeth as the breaking dawn,
* Beautiful as the moon, clothed as the sun?
V. As the rainbow giving light in the bright clouds of glory, and as the flower of roses in the spring of the year.
R. Beautiful as the moon, clothed as the sun?

[Lectio6]
Thereafter, it having been removed to the magnificent church, to which the Roman Pontiffs added College of Canons to add the splendour of divine worship, greatly increasing the piety of the Mexican people for the Mother of God; and since then the frequency of people and miracles was maintained for four remarkable centuries. Wherefore, so that She would be a present protector against public and private calamity, the Mexican Archbishop and other bishops of that region, by the agreement of all orders, appointed Her Patron of all the Nations of Mexico, and Benedict XIV duly declared the choice, by his apostolic authority, and granted the recitation of an Office and Mass under the title of the blessed Virgin of Guadalupe. And Leo XIII, kindly agreeing to the repeated prayers of the President of the Mexicans, granted this new Office to be recited, from the consultation of the Sacred Congregation of Rites, and commanded the honoured image of the Virgin with wonder and worship to be adorned with a golden crown, by his name and command, with solemn rite. And which most precious thing, on October 12, 1895, before nearly all the Bishops of all the states and many others from the rest of the regions of America, with a large crowd of natives and visitors and rejoicing, the Mexican Archbishop placed. Finally, Pius X, to satisfy the wishes of the Bishops of Latin American, declared the blessed Virgin of Guadalupe the particular Patron of all of Latin America.

[Responsory6]
R. I have chosen and made holy this place
* That my name may be there, and mine eyes, and my heart may remain there for all the days.
V. He hath not done in like manner to every nation: and his judgments he hath not made manifest to them.
R. That my name may be there, and mine eyes, and my heart may remain there for all the days.
&Gloria
R. That my name may be there, and mine eyes, and my heart may remain there for all the days.

[Lectio94]
In the year 1531, according the religious tradition of Mexico, Mary, the Virgin Mother of God, appeared on Mount Tepeyac to a recently baptized Christian, Juan Diego, and gave him a message for Bishop Juan de Zumarraga - a commission which she urgently repeated that a church was to be built there in her honor. The bishop, however, asked for a sign. Two days later, the neophyte set out to get a priest to administer the Last Sacraments to his and he took a route that not bring him too near the place of the apparitions. But his loving Mother favored him with a third visit, assured him of his uncles good health, and had him gather some roses which had sprung out of season. These she arranged in his tilma or cloak, and she told him to take them to the bishop As the roses cascaded to the floor of the bishop's audience chain (so the story continues), the picture  of Mary, miraculously imprinted on the tilma, was revealed to those present. The image was ut first kept in the bishop's oratory then moved to the hermitage that had been built on Mount Tepceyac, and finally placed in the great basilica which became the goal of crowds of Mexican  pilgrims, drawn there by their devotion to Mary and by the reports ol frequent miracles. Having the Blessed Virgin Mary of Guadalupe as an ever present protectress, the Mexican bishops, with the approval of all the people, chose her as the primary Patron of the Mexican nation; and this choice was duly approved by the apostolic authority of Pope Benedict XIV. On Columbus Day, October 12, 1895, Pope Leo XIII, acting through the archbishop of Mexico, adorned the holy image with a golden crown. And St. Pius X declared Our Lady of Guadalupe Patroness of all of Latin America.
&teDeum

[Lectio7]
Evangélium szent Lukács Evangélista kõnyvébõl
!Luke 1:39-45
In that time Mary rising up in those days, went into the hill country with haste into a city of Juda. And she entered into the house of Zachary, and saluted Elizabeth. And so on.
_
A Homily of St. Bernard the Abbot
!De Verbis Apoc. cap. 12 ad finem
Elizabeth wondered at this person coming, saying: Whence is this to me that the mother of my Lord should come to me? And she commended this voice of salutation, adding: as soon as the voice of thy salutation sounded in my ears, the infant in my womb leaped for joy: And she blessed the believing faith: Blessed, she says, art thou who hast believed. Great indeed is the reward, but also your devout humility is holding back nothing suffered by you, into whom all things are poured back more, according to whose favour they are praised.

[Responsory7]
R. Blessed are thou, O holy Virgin Mary, and most worthy of all praise,
* For out of thee arose the Sun of Righteousness, even Christ our God.
V. Pray for the people, plead for the clergy, entreat for all women dedicated to God: let everyone that celebrateth thy holy feast know the benefit of thine intercession.
R. For out of thee arose the Sun of Righteousness, even Christ our God.

[Lectio8]
Thou, she says, dost magnify the Mother of the Lord, but my soul doth magnify the Lord. At my voice you present your son to rejoice in joy, but my spirit hath exulted in God, my saviour: and he also as the friend of my spouse is glad at the voice of my spouse. Thou art to be called blessed, I who believed, but this occasion of belief and blessedness has been provided by heavenly piety; that that from henceforth all generations call me more blessed, because God hath regarded his humble and poor handmaid. But do we think, brethren, she spoke wrongly to holy Elizabeth about that which was in her through the spirit? By no means. God clearly regarded this blessed woman, and blessed her who believed. For this great fruit was brought forth of divine consideration.

[Responsory8]
R. All generations shall call me blessed,
* For the Lord that is mighty hath magnified me, and holy is his Name.
V. And his mercy is on them that fear him throughout all generations.
R. For the Lord that is mighty hath magnified me, and holy is his Name.
&Gloria
R. For the Lord that is mighty hath magnified me, and holy is his Name.

[Lectio9]
By ineffable artifice the overshadowing Spirit added so much magnanimity of humility in the great depths of the maidenly heart, that clearly such great humility will not lessen her magnanimity, nor such great magnanimity her humility. But when in her estimation she might be humble, she was also likewise magnanimous in her belief of the promise, that no one other than herself was regarded as the poor handmaid, she by no means doubted the choice for the unknowable mystery, and believed she was soon to be the true Mother of God and man. Now by thee, Mother of mercy, through the same affection of thy most pure mind, the moon having thrown itself at thy feet, established as mediatrix with the sun of justice, it interceedeth with devout supplications, that in thy light it may see the light, and may merit to obtain grace by thy sun, whom it truly loved before all, and dressed thee, clothing thee with a garment of glory, and placing a crown of beauty on thy head
&teDeum.

[Ant Laudes]
Who is she that looketh forth as the morning, clear as the sun, fair as the moon, comely as Jerusalem?
The daughters of Sion * saw her flowering with blossoms of roses, and called her most blessed
Flowers have appeared * in our land: we praise thee, Holy Mother of God
Sing ye to him * a new canticle: Declare his glory among the Gentiles
Thou art * the glory of Jerusalem, thou art the joy of Israel, thou art the honour of thy people.

[Capitulum Laudes]
!Prov 8:34-35
v. Blessed is the man that heareth me, and that watcheth daily at my gates, and waiteth at the posts of my doors.He that shall find me, shall find life, and shall have salvation from the Lord:
$Deo gratias

[Hymnus Laudes]
v. Loving Mother, free of all
stain of corruption,
chosen by Him who broke
the chains of dread death
_
In thy kindness grant
that those who rejoice in keeping thy feasts
may find their happiness
in the radiance of the true light.
_
First of all, increase our faith
by thy prayers,
guide our wavering spirits with hope
and strengthen them with charity.
_
Mother of God, cause and source
of our hope,
take away wars and afflictions,
famine, plague, and the sword.
_
Relieve the sorrows of the needy
and of those in prison;
listen to the prayers of the sick,
and give them the healing they long for.
_
Let peace and quiet make
our lives most joyful.
Make friends of our enemies,
calm the passions of evil men.
_
O Mary, loving Mother,
give us thy help,
that we may reign forever,
praising thy Son.
_
God the Father, God the Son,
God the loving Spirit,
God the Trinity,
govern us for endless ages.
Ámen.

[Versum 2]
V. Let all the earth worship thee, and sing unto thee. Alleluia.
R. Let them sing praises to thy Name, O Lord. Alleluia.

[Ant 2]
As the rainbow * giving light in the bright clouds of glory, and as the flower of roses in the spring of the year.

[Capitulum Tertia]
!Prov 8:34-35
v. Blessed is the man that heareth me, and that watcheth daily at my gates, and waiteth at the posts of my doors.He that shall find me, shall find life, and shall have salvation from the Lord:
$Deo gratias
