[Rank]
Die VI infra octavam Paschae;;Semiduplex I class;;6;;ex Pasc0-0

[Rule]
ex Pasc0-0;
Credo
Sequentia
Suffr=Ecclesiae,Papa;;

[Introitus]
!Ps 77:53
v. And he brought them out in hope, and they feared not: band the sea overwhelmed their enemies, allelúja, allelúja, allelúja.
!Ps 77:1
v. Attend, O my people, to my law: incline your ears to the words of my mouth.
&Gloria
v. And he brought them out in hope, and they feared not: band the sea overwhelmed their enemies, allelúja, allelúja, allelúja.

[Oratio]
Almighty and eternal God, in the Easter sacrament thou instituted the covenant, whereby thou forgavest mankind; grant to our souls, that what we outwardly profess we may show forth in our deeds. 
$Per Dominum

[Lectio]
Lesson from the first letter of St. Peter the Apostle
!1 Pet 3:18-22
v.  Beloved: Because Christ also died once for our sins, the just for the unjust: that he might offer us to God, being put to death indeed in the flesh, but enlivened in the spirit, In which also coming he preached to those spirits that were in prison: Which had been some time incredulous, when they waited for the patience of God in the days of Noe, when the ark was a building: wherein a few, that is, eight souls, were saved by water. Whereunto baptism being of the like form, now saveth you also: not the putting away of the filth of the flesh, but the examination of a good conscience towards God by the resurrection of Jesus Christ. Who is on the right hand of God, swallowing down death, that we might be made heirs of life everlasting: being gone into heaven, the angels and powers and virtues being made subject to him.

[Graduale]
!Ps 117:24; 117:26-27
v.  This is the day which the Lord hath made: let us be glad and rejoice therein. Blessed be he that cometh in the name Lord. The Lord is God, and he hath shone upon us. Allelúja, allelúja.
!Ps 95:10
v.  Say ye among the Gentiles, the Lord hath reigned from a tree.

[Sequentia]
@Tempora/Pasc0-0:Sequentia

[Evangelium]
Continuation + of the Holy Gospel according to Matthew
!Matt 28:16-20
v.  In that time:  the eleven disciples went into Galilee, unto the mountain where Jesus had appointed them. And seeing them they adored: but some doubted. And Jesus coming, spoke to them, saying: All power is given to me in heaven and in earth. Going therefore, teach ye all nations; baptizing them in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost. Teaching them to observe all things whatsoever I have commanded you: and behold I am with you all days, even to the consummation of the world.

[Offertorium]
!Exod 12:14
v.  And this day shall be for a memorial to you: and you shall keep it a feast to the Lord in your generations with an everlasting observance, allelúja, allelúja,~
allelúja.

[Secreta]
In thy forgiving mercy, O Lord we pray, accept the sacrifice which we offer, to atone for the sins of those who are born anew and to hasten the giving of thy heavenly help.
$Per Dominum

[Communio]
!Matt 28:18-19
v. All power is given to me in heaven and in earth. Going therefore, teach ye all nations; baptizing them in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost, allelúja, allelúja.

[Postcommunio]
O Lord, we beseech thee, behold thy people, and as thou hast decide to quicken them with the mysteries of eternity, mercifully free them from the sins committed in time.
$Per Dominum
