[Rank]
Dominica IV Post Pascha;;Semiduplex;;5;;

[Rule]
Gloria
Credo
Suffr=Maria3;Ecclesiae,Papa;;

[Introitus]
!Ps 97:1; 97:2
v. Sing ye to the Lord a new canticle, alleluia: because the Lord hath done wonderful things, alleluia. He hath revealed his justice in the sight of the Gentiles, alleluia, alleluia, alleluia.
!Ps 97:1
v. His right hand hath wrought for him salvation, and his arm is holy.
&Gloria
v. Sing ye to the Lord a new canticle, alleluia: because the Lord hath done wonderful things, alleluia. He hath revealed his justice in the sight of the Gentiles, alleluia, alleluia, alleluia.

[Oratio]
O God, of Whom it cometh that the minds of thy faithful people be all of one~
will, grant unto the same thy people that they may love the thing which Thou~
commandest, and desire that which Thou dost promise, that so, amid the sundry~
and manifold changes of the world, our hearts may surely there be fixed, where~
true joys are to be found. 
$Per Dominum

[Lectio]
Lesson from the letter of St. James the Apostle
!Jas 1:17-21
v. Dearly beloved: Every best gift, and every perfect gift, is from above, coming down from the Father of lights, with whom there is no change, nor shadow of alteration. For of his own will hath he begotten us by the word of truth, that we might be some beginning of his creatures. You know, my dearest brethren. And let every man be swift to hear, but slow to speak, and slow to anger. For the anger of man worketh not the justice of God. Wherefore casting away all uncleanness, and abundance of naughtiness, with meekness receive the ingrafted word, which is able to save your souls.

[Graduale]
Alleluia, alleluia.
!Ps 117:16
v. The right hand of the Lord hath wrought strength: the right hand of the Lord hath exulted me: Alleluia.
!Rom 6:9
v. Knowing that Christ rising again from the dead, dieth now no more, death shall no more have dominion over him. Alleluia.

[Evangelium]
Continuation + of the Holy Gospel according to John
!John 16:5-14
v. At that time: Jesus said to His disciples: I go to him that sent me, and none of you asketh me: Whither goest thou? But because I have spoken these things to you, sorrow hath filled your heart. But I tell you the truth: it is expedient to you that I go: for if I go not, the Paraclete will not come to you; but if I go, I will send him to you. And when he is come, he will convince the world of sin, and of justice, and of judgment. Of sin: because they believed not in me. And of justice: because I go to the Father; and you shall see me no longer. And of judgment: because the prince of this world is already judged. I have yet many things to say to you: but you cannot bear them now. But when he, the Spirit of truth, is come, he will teach you all truth. For he shall not speak of himself; but what things soever he shall hear, he shall speak; and the things that are to come, he shall shew you. He shall glorify me; because he shall receive of mine, and shall shew it to you.

[Offertorium]
!Ps 65:1-2; 85:16
v. Shout with joy to God, all the earth, sing ye a psalm to His Name: come and hear, and I will tell you, all ye that fear God, what great things the Lord hath done for my soul, alleluia.

[Secreta]
O God, who by the august communion of this sacrifice hast make us partakers of one Sovereign Godhead, grant we beseech thee, that as we know thy truth, so we may follow it up by worthy behavior. 
$Per Dominum.

[Communio]
!John 16:8
v. And when he is come, he will convince the world of sin, and of justice, and of judgment, alleluia, alleluia.

[Postcommunio]
Stand by us, O Lord, our God, that by what we have faithfully received we may be cleansed from our vices and rescued from all dangers.
$Per Dominum
