[Rank]
Die V infra octavam Paschae;;Semiduplex I classis;;6;;ex Pasc0-0

[Rule]
ex Pasc0-0;
Credo
Sequentia
Suffr=Ecclesiae,Papa;;

[Introitus]
!Wis 10:20-21
v. They sung to thy holy name, O Lord, and they praised with one accord thy victorious hand, alleluia. For wisdom opened the mouth of the dumb, and made the tongues of infants eloquent, allelúja,allelúja, allelúja.
!Ps 97:1
v. Sing ye to the Lord anew canticle: because he hath done wonderful things.
&Gloria
v. They sung to thy holy name, O Lord, and they praised with one accord thy victorious hand, alleluia. For wisdom opened the mouth of the dumb, and made the tongues of infants eloquent, allelúja,allelúja, allelúja.

[Oratio]
O God, Who dost make all nations, how diverse soever they be, to become one~
family in giving of praise to thy Name, grant unto all them that are born again~
in the fountain of baptism to live ever in oneness of faith, and godliness of~
works. 
$Per Dominum

[Lectio]
Lesson from the Acts of Apostles
!Acts 8:26-40
v. In that time, an angel of the Lord spoke to Philip, saying: Arise, go towards the south, to the way that goeth down from Jerusalem into Gaza: this is desert. And rising up, he went. And behold a man of Ethiopia, an eunuch, of great authority under Candace the queen of the Ethiopians, who had charge over all her treasures, had come to Jerusalem to adore. And he was returning, sitting in this chariot, and reading Isaias the prophet. And the Spirit said to Philip: Go near, and join thyself to this chariot. And Philip running thither, heard him reading the prophet Isaias. And he said: Thinkest thou that thou understandest what thou readest? Who said: And how can I, unless some man shew me? And he desired Philip that he would come up and sit with him. And the place of the scripture which he was reading was this: He was led as a sheep to the slaughter; and like a lamb without voice before his shearer, so openeth he not his mouth. In humility his judgment was taken away. His generation who shall declare, for his life shall be taken from the earth? And the eunuch answering Philip, said: I beseech thee, of whom doth the prophet speak this? of himself, or of some other man? Then Philip, opening his mouth, and beginning at this scripture, preached unto him Jesus. And as they went on their way, they came to a certain water; and the eunuch said: See, here is water: what doth hinder me from being baptized? And Philip said: If thou believest with all thy heart, thou mayest. And he answering, said: I believe that Jesus Christ is the Son of God. And he commanded the chariot to stand still; and they went down into the water, both Philip and the eunuch: and he baptized him. And when they were come up out of the water, the Spirit of the Lord took away Philip; and the eunuch saw him no more. And he went on his way rejoicing. But Philip was found in Azotus; and passing through, he preached the gospel to all the cities, till he came to Caesarea.

[Graduale]
!Ps 117:24; 117:22-23.
v.  This is the day which the Lord hath made: let us be glad and rejoice therein. 
V. The stone which the builders rejected; the same is become the head of the corner. This is the Lord's doing: and it is wonderful in our eyes. Allelúja, allelúja,
V. Christ is risen, who created all things, and has had compassion upon the human race.

[Sequentia]
@Tempora/Pasc0-0:Sequentia

[Evangelium]
Continuation + of the Holy Gospel according to John
!John 20:11-18
v.  In that time: Mary stood at the sepulchre without, weeping. Now as she was weeping, she stooped down, and looked into the sepulchre, And she saw two angels in white, sitting, one at the head, and one at the feet, where the body of Jesus had been laid. They say to her: Woman, why weepest thou? She saith to them: Because they have taken away my Lord; and I know not where they have laid him. When she had thus said, she turned herself back, and saw Jesus standing; and she knew not that it was Jesus. Jesus saith to her: Woman, why weepest thou? whom seekest thou? She, thinking it was the gardener, saith to him: Sir, if thou hast taken him hence, tell me where thou hast laid him, and I will take him away. Jesus saith to her: Mary. She turning, saith to him: Rabboni - which is to say, Master. - Jesus saith to her: Do not touch me, for I am not yet ascended to my Father. But go to my brethren, and say to them: I ascend to my Father and to your Father, to my God and your God. Mary Magdalen cometh, and telleth the disciples: I have seen the Lord, and these things he said to me.

[Offertorium]
!Exod 13:5
v. In the day of your solemnity, said the Lord, I will bring you into a land that floweth with milk and honey, allelúja.

[Secreta]
Graciously receive, we beseech thee, O Lord, the offering of thy people, and grant that they who are renewed by baptism and the confession of thy name, may attain to everlasting happiness.
$Per Dominum

[Communio]
!1 Pet 2:9
v.  But you are a chosen generation, a kingly priesthood, a holy nation, a purchased people: that you may declare his virtues, who hath called you out of darkness into his marvellous light: allelúja.

[Postcommunio]
O Lord, hear our prayers; that the holy channels of our redemption may obtain us help in this our present life, and secure us eternal joys.
$Per Dominum.
