[Rank]
Die II infra octavam Paschae;;Duplex I classis;;7;;ex Pasc0-0

[Rule]
ex Pasc0-0;
Credo
Sequentia

[Introitus]
!Exod 13:5; 13:9
v.  And when the Lord shall have brought thee a land that floweth with milk and honey, alleluia; and that the law of the Lord be always in thy mouth, alleluia.
!Ps 104:1
v. Give glory to the Lord, and call upon his name: declare his deeds among the Gentiles.
&Gloria
v.  And when the Lord shall have brought thee a land that floweth with milk and honey, alleluia; and that the law of the Lord be always in thy mouth, alleluia.

[Oratio]
O God, Who dost heal the sick world by the solemn gladness of the Passover,~
continue, we beseech thee, to pour forth thine heavenly gifts upon thy people,~
till the same shall bring them into perfect liberty, and finally avail them unto~
life everlasting. 
$Per Dominum

[Lectio]
Lesson from the Acts of Apostles
!Acts 10:37-43.
v.  In those days Peter standing among the people, said: You know the word which hath been published through all Judea: for it began from Galilee, after the baptism which John preached, Jesus of Nazareth: how God anointed him with the Holy Ghost, and with power, who went about doing good, and healing all that were oppressed by the devil, for God was with him. And we are witnesses of all things that he did in the land of the Jews and in Jerusalem, whom they killed, hanging him upon a tree. Him God raised up the third day, and gave him to be made manifest, not to all the people, but to witnesses preordained by God, even to us, who did eat and drink with him after he arose again from the dead; And he commanded us to preach to the people, and to testify that it is he who was appointed by God, to be judge of the living and of the dead. To him all the prophets give testimony, that by his name all receive remission of sins, who believe in him.

[Graduale]
!Ps 117:24; 117:2.
This is the day which the Lord hath made: let us be glad and rejoice therein. 
V. Let Israel now say, that He is good: for His mercy endureth forever.~
Allelúja, allelúja.
!Matt 28:2
v. An angel of the Lord descended from heaven, and coming, rolled back the stone, and sat upon it.

[Sequentia]
@Tempora/Pasc0-0:Sequentia

[Evangelium]
Continuation + of the Holy Gospel according to Luke
!Luke 24:13-35
v. In that time two of them went, the same day, to a town which was sixty furlongs from Jerusalem, named Emmaus. And they talked together of all these things which had happened. And it came to pass, that while they talked and reasoned with themselves, Jesus himself also drawing near, went with them. But their eyes were held, that they should not know him. And he said to them: What are these discourses that you hold one with another as you walk, and are sad? And the one of them, whose name was Cleophas, answering, said to him: Art thou only a stranger to Jerusalem, and hast not known the things that have been done there in these days? To whom he said: What things? And they said: Concerning Jesus of Nazareth, who was a prophet, mighty in work and word before God and all the people; And how our chief priests and princes delivered him to be condemned to death, and crucified him. But we hoped, that it was he that should have redeemed Israel: and now besides all this, to day is the third day since these things were done. Yea and certain women also of our company affrighted us, who before it was light, were at the sepulchre, And not finding his body, came, saying, that they had also seen a vision of angels, who say that he is alive. And some of our people went to the sepulchre, and found it so as the women had said, but him they found not. Then he said to them: O foolish, and slow of heart to believe in all things which the prophets have spoken. Ought not Christ to have suffered these things, and so to enter into his glory? And beginning at Moses and all the prophets, he expounded to them in all the scriptures, the things that were concerning him. And they drew nigh to the town, whither they were going: and he made as though he would go farther. But they constrained him; saying: Stay with us, because it is towards evening, and the day is now far spent. And he went in with them. And it came to pass, whilst he was at table with them, he took bread, and blessed, and brake, and gave to them. And their eyes were opened, and they knew him: and he vanished out of their sight. And they said one to the other: Was not our heart burning within us, whilst he spoke in this way, and opened to us the scriptures? And rising up, the same hour, they went back to Jerusalem: and they found the eleven gathered together, and those that were staying with them, Saying: The Lord is risen indeed, and hath appeared to Simon. And they told what things were done in the way; and how they knew him in the breaking of the bread.


[Offertorium]
!Matt 28:2; 28:5-6
v.  An angel of the Lord descended from heaven, and said to the women: Jesus, whom you seek He is not here, for he is risen, as he said. Allelúja.

[Secreta]
Adept, O Lord we beseech thee, the prayers with the sacrifices of the people, and grant that what we have begun at these paschal mysteries, may with thy help be a remedy for life eternal.
$Per Dominum

[Communio]
!Luke 24:34
v. The Lord is risen indeed, and hath appeared to Simon.

[Postcommunio]
Pour forth upon us, O Lord, the spirit of Thy love, that, by Thy loving kindness, Thou mayest make to be of one mind those whom Thou hast satisfied with the Paschal Sacraments.
$Per Dominum eiusdem
