[Rank]
Die III infra octavam Paschae;;Duplex I classis;;7;;ex Pasc0-0

[Rule]
ex Pasc0-0;
Credo
Sequentia

[Introitus]
!Sir 15:3-4
v.  She give them the water of wholesome wisdom to drink, alleluia; and she shall be made strong in him, and he shall not be moved: And she shall hold him fast, and he shall not be confounded: and she shall exalt them, allelúja, allelúja.
!Ps 104:1
Give glory to the Lord, and call upon his name: declare his deeds among the Gentiles. 
&Gloria
v.  She give them the water of wholesome wisdom to drink, alleluia; and she shall be made strong in him, and he shall not be moved: And she shall hold him fast, and he shall not be confounded: and she shall exalt them, allelúja, allelúja.

[Oratio]
O God, Who art ever multiplying the Children of thy Church, grant unto the same~
thy servants that they may lead the rest of their lives according to this~
beginning wherein Thou hast given them faith to receive the Sacrament of the New~
Birth. 
$Per Dominum

[Lectio]
Lesson from the Acts of Apostles
!Acts 13:16; 13:26-33
v.  In that time Paul rising up, and with his hand bespeaking silence, said: Ye men of Israel, and you that fear God, give ear. Men, brethren, children of the stock of Abraham, and whosoever among you fear God, to you the word of this salvation is sent. For they that inhabited Jerusalem, and the rulers thereof, not knowing him, nor the voices of the prophets, which are read every sabbath, judging him have fulfilled them. And finding no cause of death in him, they desired of Pilate, that they might kill him. And when they had fulfilled all things that were written of him, taking him down from the tree, they laid him in a sepulchre. But God raised him up from the dead the third day: Who was seen for many days, by them who came up with him from Galilee to Jerusalem, who to this present are his witnesses to the people. And we declare unto you, that the promise which was made to our fathers, This same God hath fulfilled to our children, raising up Jesus, as in the second psalm also is written: Thou art my Son, this day have I begotten thee.

[Graduale]
Alleluia, alleluia
!Ps 117:24;
v.  This is the day which the Lord hath made: let us be glad and rejoice therein. 
!Ps 106:2
V.  Let them say so that have been redeemed by the Lord, whom he hath redeemed from the hand of the enemy: and gathered out of the countries. Allelúja, allelúja.
V. The Lord is risen from the sepulcher, He, who hangeth on the tree

[Sequentia]
@Tempora/Pasc0-0:Sequentia

[Evangelium]
Continuation + of the Holy Gospel according to Luke
!Luke 24:36-47
In that time Jesus stood in the midst of them, and saith to them: Peace be to you; it is I, fear not. But they being troubled and frightened, supposed that they saw a spirit. And he said to them: Why are you troubled, and why do thoughts arise in your hearts? See my hands and feet, that it is I myself; handle, and see: for a spirit hath not flesh and bones, as you see me to have. And when he had said this, he shewed them his hands and feet. But while they yet believed not, and wondered for joy, he said: Have you any thing to eat? And they offered him a piece of a broiled fish, and a honeycomb. And when he had eaten before them, taking the remains, he gave to them. And he said to them: These are the words which I spoke to you, while I was yet with you, that all things must needs be fulfilled, which are written in the law of Moses, and in the prophets, and in the psalms, concerning me. Then he opened their understanding, that they might understand the scriptures. And he said to them: Thus it is written, and thus it behoved Christ to suffer, and to rise again from the dead, the third day: And that penance and remission of sins should be preached in his name, unto all nations, beginning at Jerusalem. And you are witnesses of these things.

[Offertorium]
!Ps 17:14; 17:16
v.  And the Lord thundered from heaven, and the highest gave his voice:  Then the fountains of waters appeared, allelúja.

[Secreta]
Accept, O Lord, the prayers and the sacrifice of thy faithful; that by these services of pious devotion, we may come to heavenly glory.
$Per Dominum

[Communio]
!Col 3:1-2
v.  If you be risen with Christ, seek the things that are above; where Christ is sitting at the right hand of God: alleluia. Mind the things that are above, allelúja.

[Postcommunio]
Grant, we beseech thee, Almighty God, that the grace of paschal sacrament which we have received may ever abide in our souls.
$Per Dominum
