[Rank]
Patrocinii St. Joseph Confessoris Sponsi B.M.V. confessoris;;Duplex I classis;;6;;

[Rule]
proper
Gloria
Credo
Prefatio=Joseph

[Introitus]
!Ps 32:20-21
v.  Our soul waiteth for the Lord: for he is our helper and protector. For in him our heart shall rejoice: and in his holy name we have trusted, allelúja, allelúja
!Ps 79:2
O thou that rulest Israel: thou that leadest Joseph like a sheep. 
&Gloria
v.  O thou that rulest Israel: thou that leadest Joseph like a sheep. Thou that sittest upon the cherubims, shine forth, allelúja, allelúja

[Oratio]
God, Who in thine unspeakable foreknowledge didst choose thy blessed servant~
Joseph to be the husband of thine Own most holy Mother; mercifully grant that~
now that he is in heaven with thee, we who on earth do reverence him for our~
Defender, may worthily be holpen by the succour of his prayers to thee on our~
behalf; 
$Qui vivis

[Lectio]
Lesson from the book of Genesis
!Gen 49:22-26
v.  Joseph is a growing son, a growing son and comely to behold; the daughters run to and fro upon the wall. But they that held darts provoked him, and quarrelled with him, and envied him. His bow rested upon the strong, and the bands of his arms and his hands were loosed, by the hands of the mighty one of Jacob: thence he came forth a pastor, the stone of Israel. The God of thy father shall be thy helper, and the Almighty shall bless thee with the blessings of heaven above, with the blessings of the deep that lieth be- neath, with the blessings of the breasts and of the womb. The blessings of thy father are strengthened with the blessings of his fathers: until the desire of the everlasting hills should come; may they be upon the head of Joseph, and upon the crown of the Nazarite among his brethren.

[Graduale]
Allelúja, allelúja.
v. In whatever tribulation they shall cry to me, I will hear them and be their protector always. Allelúja.
V. Obtain to us, O Joseph, to lead an innocent life; and may it ever be safe through thy patronage. Allelúja.

[Evangelium]
Continuation + of the Holy Gospel according to Luke
!Luke 3:21-23
v.  In illo termpore: it came to pass, when all the people were baptized, that Jesus also being baptized and praying, heaven was opened; And the Holy Ghost descended in a bodily shape, as a dove upon him; and a voice came from heaven: Thou art my beloved Son; in thee I am well pleased. And Jesus himself was beginning about the age of thirty years; being - as it was supposed - the son of Joseph, who was of Heli, who was of Mathat,

[Offertorium]
!Ps 147:12; 147:13
v.  Praise the Lord, O Jerusalem: praise thy God, O Sion. Because he hath strengthened the bolts of thy gates, he hath blessed thy children within thee, allelúja, allelúja.

[Secreta]
Supported by the patronage of the spouse of thy most holy Mother, we beseech thy clemency, O Lord, that thou wouldst make our hearts despise all eartly things and love thee, the true God with perfect charity.
$Qui vivis

[Communio]
!Matt 1:16
v.  And Jacob begot Joseph the husband of Mary, of whom was born Jesus, who is called Christ, allelúja, allelúja.

[Postcommunio]
Refreshed at the fount of divine blessing, we beseech thee, O Lord our God, that as thou dost gladden us by the protection of blessed Joseph, so by his merits and intercession thou woulds make us partakers of his heavenly glory.
$Per Dominum
