[Rank]
Feria Secunda in Rogationibus;;Feria;;2

[Rule]
no Gloria
no Credo
Suffr=Maria3;Ecclesiae,Papa;;

[Introitus]
!Ps 17:7
v. In my affliction I called upon the Lord, and I cried to my God: And he heard my voice from his holy temple: and my cry before him came into his ears. allelúja, allelúja.
!Ps 17:2-3
v.  I will love thee, O Lord, my strength: The Lord is my firmament, my refuge, and my deliverer. .
&Gloria
v. In my affliction I called upon the Lord, and I cried to my God: And he heard my voice from his holy temple: and my cry before him came into his ears. allelúja, allelúja.

[Oratio]
Grant, we beseech thee, O Almighty God, that we who in our tribulation are yet~
of good cheer because of thy loving-kindness, may find thee mighty to save from~
all dangers. 
$Per Dominum

[Lectio]
Lesson from the letter of St James the Apostle
!Jas 5:16-20
v. Dearly beloved: Confess therefore your sins one to another: and pray one for another, that you may be saved. For the continual prayer of a just man availeth much. Elias was a man passible like unto us: and with prayer he prayed that it might not rain upon the earth, and it rained not for three years and six months. And he prayed again: and the heaven gave rain, and the earth brought forth her fruit. My brethren, if any of you err from the truth, and one convert him: He must know that he who causeth a sinner to be converted from the error of his way, shall save his soul from death, and shall cover a multitude of sins.

[Graduale]
Allelúa, alleluia.
!Ps 117:1
v.  Give praise to Lord, for he is good: for his mercy endureth for ever.

[Evangelium]
Continuation + of the Holy Gospel according to Luke
!Luke 11:5-13
v. In that time: Jesus said to His disciples: Which of you shall have a friend, and shall go to him at midnight, and shall say to him: Friend, lend me three loaves, Because a friend of mine is come off his journey to me, and I have not what to set before him. And he from within should answer, and say: Trouble me not, the door is now shut, and my children are with me in bed; I cannot rise and give thee. Yet if he shall continue knocking, I say to you, although he will not rise and give him, because he is his friend; yet, because of his importunity, he will rise, and give him as many as he needeth. And I say to you, Ask, and it shall be given you: seek, and you shall find: knock, and it shall be opened to you. For every one that asketh, receiveth; and he that seeketh, findeth; and to him that knocketh, it shall be opened. And which of you, if he ask his father bread, will he give him a stone? or a fish, will he for a fish give him a serpent? Or if he shall ask an egg, will he reach him a scorpion? If you then, being evil, know how to give good gifts to your children, how much more will your Father from heaven give the good Spirit to them that ask him?

[Offertorium]
!Ps 108:30-31
v.  I will give great thanks to the Lord with my mouth: and in the midst of many I will praise him. Because he hath stood at the right hand of the poor, to save my soul from persecutors, allelúja.

[Secreta]
We beseech thee, O Lord, that these offerings may both loosen the bonds of our wickedness and obtain for us the gift of mercy.
$Per Dominum.

[Communio]
!Luke 11:9-10
v. Ask, and it shall be given you: seek, and you shall find: knock, and it shall be opened to you. For every one that asketh, receiveth; and he that seeketh, findeth; and to him that knocketh, it shall be opened, allelúja.

[Postcommunio]
Mercifully grant our prayers, we beseech thee, O Lord, that while we receive thy gifts in tribulation, we may be conforted, and so increase in thy love. 
$Per Dominum
