[Rank]
Die IV infra octavam Paschae;;Semiduplex I classis;;6;;ex Pasc0-0

[Rule]
ex Pasc0-0;
Credo
Sequentia
Suffr=Ecclesiae,Papa;;

[Introitus]
!Matt 25:34
v. Come, ye blessed of my Father, possess you the kingdom alleluia, prepared for you from the foundation of the world, allelúja, allelúja, allelúja.
!Ps 95:1
v. Sing ye to the Lord a new canticle: sing to the Lord, all the earth.
&Gloria
v. Come, ye blessed of my Father, possess you the kingdom alleluia, prepared for you from the foundation of the world, allelúja, allelúja, allelúja.

[Oratio]
O God, Who dost every year fill us with holy gladness for the Again rising of~
the Lord, mercifully grant that these Feast-days which we are now keeping here~
in time, may be to us a mean whereby in the end we may worthily attain unto~
those pleasures which are at thy right hand for evermore 
$Per eumdem

[Lectio]
Lesson from the Acts of Apostles
!Acts 3:13-15; 3:17-19
v. In that time, Peter opened his mouth and said: Men of Israel, and you who fear God, listen. The God of Abraham, and the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob, the God of our fathers, hath glorified his Son Jesus, whom you indeed delivered up and denied before the face of Pilate, when he judged he should be released. But you denied the Holy One and the Just, and desired a murderer to be granted unto you. But the author of life you killed, whom God hath raised from the dead, of which we are witnesses. And now, brethren, I know that you did it through ignorance, as did also your rulers. But those things which God before had shewed by the mouth of all the prophets, that his Christ should suffer, he hath so fulfilled. Be penitent, therefore, and be converted, that your sins may be blotted out.

[Graduale]
Alleluia, alleluia
!Ps 117:24; 117:16
v.  This is the day which the Lord hath made: let us be glad and rejoice therein. 
V. The right hand of the Lord hath wrought strength: the right hand of the Lord hath exulted me: Allelúja,allelúja.
!Luke 24:34
v. The Lord is risen indeed, and hath appeared to Simon.
V. Surréxit Dóminus vere: et appáruit Petro.

[Sequentia]
@Tempora/Pasc0-0:Sequentia

[Evangelium]
Continuation + of the Holy Gospel according to John
!John 21:1-14
v.  In that time, Jesus shewed himself again to the disciples at the sea of Tiberias. And he shewed himself after this manner. There were together Simon Peter, and Thomas, who is called Didymus, and Nathanael, who was of Cana of Galilee, and the sons of Zebedee, and two others of his disciples. Simon Peter saith to them: I go a fishing. They say to him: We also come with thee. And they went forth, and entered into the ship: and that night they caught nothing. But when the morning was come, Jesus stood on the shore: yet the disciples knew not that it was Jesus. Jesus therefore said to them: Children, have you any meat? They answered him: No. He saith to them: Cast the net on the right side of the ship, and you shall find. They cast therefore; and now they were not able to draw it, for the multitude of fishes. That disciple therefore whom Jesus loved, said to Peter: It is the Lord. Simon Peter, when he heard that it was the Lord, girt his coat about him, - for he was naked, - and cast himself into the sea. But the other disciples came in the ship, - for they were not far from the land, but as it were two hundred cubits, - dragging the net with fishes. As soon then as they came to land, they saw hot coals lying, and a fish laid thereon, and bread. Jesus saith to them: Bring hither of the fishes which you have now caught. Simon Peter went up, and drew the net to land, full of great fishes, one hundred and fifty-three. And although there were so many, the net was not broken. Jesus saith to them: Come, and dine. And none of them who were at meat, durst ask him: Who art thou? knowing that it was the Lord. And Jesus cometh and taketh bread, and giveth them, and fish in like manner. This is now the third time that Jesus was manifested to his disciples, after he was risen from the dead.

[Offertorium]
!Ps 77:23-25
v.  And he had opened the doors of heaven,  and had given them the bread of heaven. Man ate the bread of angels: allelúja.

[Secreta]
Amidst the joys of Easter, we offer unto thee, O Lord, the sacrifice wherewith thy Church, is wonderfully fed and nourished.
$Per Dominum

[Communio]
!Rom 6:9
v. Christ rising again from the dead, dieth now no more, death shall no more have dominion over him, allelúja, allelúja.

[Postcommunio]
O Lord, we beseech Thee, that we, reverently receiving thy Sacrament, may be cleansed from all our former defilement, and became new creature. 
$Qui vivis

