[Officium]
Sacratissimi Cordis Domini Nostri Jesu Christi

[Rule]
Gloria
Credo
Prefatio=Cruce
No Commemoratio

[Introitus]
!Jer. in Thren. 3
v. He will have compassion according to the multitude of his mercies: for he does not afflict willingly nor grieve the children of men: the Lord is good unto those who wait for him, to the soul that seeks him, alleluia, alleluia. 
!Ps. 88
My song shall be always of the loving-kindness of the Lord: with my mouth will I forever show your truth from one generation to another. 
&Gloria
v. He will have compassion according to the multitude of his mercies: for he does not afflict willingly nor grieve the children of men: the Lord is good unto those who wait for him, to the soul that seeks him, alleluia, alleluia.

[Oratio]
We beseech you, Almighty God: that we who, glorying in the most sacred Heart of thy well-beloved Son, do call to mind the excellent benefits of his love towards us, may forever rejoice in its work within us and in bringing forth the fruits of the same.
$Per eumdem

[Lectio]
From the Prophecy of Isaias
!c. 12
And you shall say in that day: I will give thanks to thee, O Lord, for you were angry with me: your wrath is turned away, and you have comforted me. Behold, God is my saviour, I will deal confidently, and will not fear: O because the Lord is my strength, and my praise, and he is become my salvation. You shall draw waters with joy out of the saviour's fountains: And you shall say in that day: Praise the Lord, and call upon his name: make his works known among the people: remember that his name is high. Sing to the Lord, for he hath done great things: show this forth in all the earth. Rejoice, and praise, O habitation of Sion: for great is he that is in the midst of you, the Holy One of Israel.

[Graduale]
!Jer. In Thren. 1 
O all you that pass by, behold and see, if there is any sorrow like my sorrow. 
!St. John 13. 
Having loved his own which were in the world, he loved them unto the end.
!St. Matt. 11
Alleluia, alleluia. Learn of me, for I am meek and lowly in heart, and you shall find rest for your souls. Alleluia.

[GradualeP]
!Ps. 29
Alleluia, alleluia. Lord, my God, I have cried out to you, and you healed me: you have led my soul out of hell. Alleluia. 
V. You have turned for me my mourning into joy: you have cut my sackcloth, and has surrounded me with gladness. Alleluia.

[Tractus]
!Ps. 68 
But I am a worm and no man: the reproach of men and the outcast of the people. 
V. All they that saw me have laughed me to scorn: they have spoken with the lips and wagged the head. 
V. I am poured out like water, and all my bones are scattered. My heart is become like wax melting in the midst of my bowels.

[Evangelium]
A reading from ++ the Holy Gospel according to John
!Joannes 19:31-37
At that time : Jews, because it was the Parasceve, that the bodies might not remain on the cross on the sabbath day, (for that was a great sabbath day,) besought Pilate that their legs might be broken, and that they might be taken away. The soldiers therefore came; and they broke the legs of the first, and of the other that was crucified with him. But after they were come to Jesus, when they saw that he was already dead, they did not break his legs. But one of the soldiers with a spear opened his side, and immediately there came out blood and water. And he that saw it, hath given testimony, and his testimony is true.

[Offertorium]
!Ps. 102
Bless the Lord, O my soul, and never forget all he hath done for thee. who satisfies your desire with good things, alleluia.

[Secreta]
Defend us, O Lord, we pray you, who present this sacrifice unto you : and to the intent that our hearts may be made ready more earnestly to offer the same, vouchsafe to kindle them with the fires of your heavenly charity.
$Qui vivis

[Communio]
!Ps. 68
My heart has expected reproach and misery ; and I looked for one who would grieve together with me, but there was none; and for one who would comfort me, and I found none, alleluia.

[Postcommunio]
O Lord our God, who has vouchsafed to feed us with the banquet of our peace, and the sacraments of our salvation: we humbly beseech you; that as you are meek and lowly of heart, so we, being cleansed from the stains of our vices, may learn more earnestly to forsake the pride and vanities of the world. 
$Qui vivis
