[Rank]
Feria Quinta infra Hebdomadam III in Quadragesima;;Feria major;;2

[Rule]
no Gloria
Suffragium=Sanctorum;Vivis;;
Super popul

[Introitus]
v. I am the salvation of the people, says the Lord. From whatever tribulation they shall cry to Me, I will hear them; and I will be their Lord forever.
!Ps 77:1
Hearken, My people, to My teaching; incline your ears to the words of My mouth.
&Gloria
v. I am the salvation of the people, says the Lord. From whatever tribulation they shall cry to Me, I will hear them; and I will be their Lord forever.

[Oratio]
May the blessed feast of Your saints, Cosmas and Damian, glorify You, O Lord; for on this day in Your marvelous providence, You gave them glory everlasting, and gave us their help.
$Per Dominum

[Lectio]
Lesson
!Jer 7:1-7
In those days, the following message came to me from the Lord: Stand at the gate of the house of the Lord, and there proclaim this message: ‘Hear the word of the Lord, all you of Juda who enter these gates to worship the Lord! Thus says the Lord of Hosts, the God of Israel: Reform your ways and your deeds, so that I may remain with you in this place. Put not your trust in the deceitful words: This is the temple of the Lord! The temple of the Lord! The temple of the Lord! Only if you thoroughly reform your ways and your deeds; if each of you deals justly with his neighbor; if you no longer oppress the resident alien, the orphan, and the widow; if you no longer shed innocent blood in this place, or follow strange gods to your own harm, will I remain with you in this place, in the land which I gave your fathers long ago and forever,’ says the Lord almighty.

[Graduale]
!Ps 144:15-16
The eyes of all look hopefully to You, O Lord, and You give them their food in due season.
V. You open Your hand and satisfy the desire of every living thing.

[Evangelium]
Continuation of the Holy Gospel according to
!Lk. 4:38-44
At that time, Jesus rose from the synagogue and entered Simon’s house. Now Simon’s mother-in-law was suffering from a great fever, and they besought Him for her. And standing over her He rebuked the fever, and it left her; and she rose at once and began to wait on them. Now when the sun was setting, all who had persons sick with various diseases brought them to Him. And He laid His hands upon each of them and cured them. And devils also came forth from many, crying out and saying, You are the Son of God. And He rebuked them, and did not permit them to speak, because they knew that He was the Christ. Now when it was day, He went out and departed into a desert place. And the crowds were seeking after Him, and they came to Him, and tried to detain Him, that He might not depart from them. But He said to them, To the other towns also I must proclaim the kingdom of God, for this is why I have been sent. And He was preaching in the synagogues of Galilee.

[Offertorium]
!Ps 137:7
Though I walk amid distress, You preserve me, O Lord; against the anger of my enemies You raise Your hand; Your right hand saves me.

[Secreta]
We offer You, O Lord, in honor of the meritorious death of Your just ones, this sacrifice which is the source of martyrdom.
$Per Dominum

[Communio]
!Ps 118:4-5
You have commanded that Your precepts be diligently kept. Oh, that I might be firm in the ways of keeping Your statutes!

[Postcommunio]
O Lord, we ask You through the merits of Your blessed martyrs, Cosmas and Damian, that Your holy sacrament will assure us of salvation.
$Per Dominum

[Super populum]
!Prayer over the people
v. Let us pray.
v. Bow your heads to God.
v. May Your heavenly favor, O God, increase the number of Your subjects, and help them always to obey Your commands.
$Per Dominum
