[Rank]
Feria Secunda Majoris Hebdomadæ;;Feria privilegiata;;6

[Rank] (rubrica 1955 aut rubrica 1960)
Feria Secunda Hebdomadæ Sanctæ;;Feria privilegiata;;6

[Rule]
no Gloria
Suffragium=Ecclesiae,Papa;;
Prefatio=Quad5
Super popul

[Introitus]
!Ps 34:1-2
v. Judge thou, O Lord, them that wrong me : overthrow them that fight against me. Take hold of arms and shield : and rise up to help me. O Lord, my salvation.
!Ps 34:3
v.  Bring out the sword, and shut up the way against them that persecute me : say to my soul : I am thy salvation.
v. Judge thou, O Lord, them that wrong me : overthrow them that fight against me. Take hold of arms and shield : and rise up to help me. O Lord, my salvation.

[Oratio]
Grant, we beseech thee, almighty God, that we who fail through our weakness in so many difficulties, may be relieved through the pleding of the Passion of thy only-begotten Son.
$Qui tecum

[Lectio]
Lesson from the Book of Isaias, the Prophet
!Isa 50:5-10
v.  The Lord God hath opened my ear, and I do not resist: I have not gone back. I have given my body to the strikers, and my cheeks to them that plucked them: I have not turned away my face from them that rebuked me, and spit upon me. The Lord God is my helper, therefore am I not confounded: therefore have I set my face as a most hard rock, and I know that I shall not be confounded. He is near that justifieth me, who will contend with me? let us stand together, who is my adversary? let him come near to me. Behold the Lord God is my helper: who is he that shall condemn me? Lo, they shall all be destroyed as a garment, the moth shall eat them up. Who is there among you that feareth the Lord, that heareth the voice of his servant, that hath walked in darkness, and hath no light? let him hope in the name of the Lord, and lean upon his God.

[Graduale]
!Ps 34:23; 34:3
v.  Arise, and be attentive to my judgment : to my cause, my God, and my Lord. 
V. Bring out the sword, and shut up the way against them that persecute me  
_
!Tractus
!Ps 102:10
v.  He hath not dealt with us according to our sins: nor rewarded us according to our iniquities.
!Ps 78:8-9
v.  Remember not our former iniquities: let thy mercies speedily prevent us, for we are become exceeding poor. (here genuflects) 
V. Help us, O God, our saviour: and for the glory of thy name, O Lord, deliver us: and forgive us our sins for thy name's sake:

[Evangelium]
Continuation of the Holy Gospel according to John
!John 12:1-9
v. Jesus therefore, six days before the pasch, came to Bethania, where Lazarus had been dead, whom Jesus raised to life. And they made him a supper there: and Martha served: but Lazarus was one of them that were at table with him. Mary therefore took a pound of ointment of right spikenard, of great price, and anointed the feet of Jesus, and wiped his feet with her hair; and the house was filled with the odour of the ointment. Then one of his disciples, Judas Iscariot, he that was about to betray him, said: Why was not this ointment sold for three hundred pence, and given to the poor? Now he said this, not because he cared for the poor; but because he was a thief, and having the purse, carried the things that were put therein. Jesus therefore said: Let her alone, that she may keep it against the day of my burial. For the poor you have always with you; but me you have not always. A great multitude therefore of the Jews knew that he was there; and they came, not for Jesus' sake only, but that they might see Lazarus, whom he had raised from the dead.

[Offertorium]
!Ps 142:9-10
v.  Deliver me from my enemies, O Lord, to thee have I fled: teach me to do thy will, for thou art my God.

[Secreta]
May these sacrifices, almighty God, make us, whom thou clesnsest by thy mighty power, to approach their source with greather purity. 
$Per Dominum

[Communio]
!Ps 34:26
v.  Let them blush : and be ashamed together, who rejoice at my evils. Let them be clothed with confusion and shame, who speak great things against me.

[Postcommunio]
Let thy holy mysteries, O Lord, inspire up with divine fervor, that we may delight both in their celebration and in their fruit.
$Per Dominum

[Super populum]
!Prayer over the people
v. Let us pray.
v. Bow your heads to God. 
v. Help us, O God, our Saviour, and grant that we may draw nigh with joy, to keep the memory of those mercies, whereby thou didst deign to restore us to life.
$Per Dominum
