[Rank]
Dominica in Palmis;;I classis Semiduplex;;6

[Rule]
no Gloria
Credo
Prefatio=Quad5
Prelude
Passio
omit commemoratio

[Prelude]
!!The Blessing of the Palms,
! After the holy water has been sprinkled and the Asperges me has been sung, the priest in purple cope, with his ministers also vested in purple, proceeds to the blessing of the palms, or of branches of olive or other trees which are placed in front or on the epistle side of the altar. The choir sings first the following anthem:
_
!Antiphon
!Matt 21:9
Hosanna to the Son of David! Blessed is He that cometh in the Name of the Lord. O King of Israel: Hosanna in the highest!
! The the priest, standing on the epistle side, his hands joined but without turning towards the faithful, sings:
$Dominus vobiscum
$Oremus
v. O God, whom to love above all is righteousness, multiply in us the gifts of Thine ineffable grace: and since Thou hast given us in the death of Thy Son to hope for those things which we believe, grant us by the Resurrection of the same to attain the end to which we aspire.
$Qui tecum
_
_
! The subdeacon then sings the following lesson, and at its close kisses the hand of the priest:
!!Lesson
Lesson from the Book of Exodus.
!Exodus 15:27; 16:1-7
In those days the children of Israel came into Elim, where there were twelve fountains of water, and seventy palm trees; and they encamped by the waters. And they set forward from Elim, and all the multitude of the children of Israel came into the desert of Sin, which is between Elim and Sinai: the fifteenth day of the second month after they came out of the land of Egypt. And all the congregation of the children of Israel murmured against Moses and Aaron in the wilderness. And the children of Israel said to them: Would to God we had died by the hand of the Lord in the land of Egypt, when we sat over the fleshpots and ate bread to the full. Why have you brought us into this desert, that you might destroy all the multitude with famine? And the Lord said to Moses: Behold I will rain bread from heaven for you; let the people go forth and gather what is sufficient for every day; that I may prove them whether they will walk in My law or not. But the sixth day let them provide for to bring in; and let it be double to that they were wont to gather every day. And Moses and Aaron said to the children of Israel: In the evening you shall know that the Lord hath brought you forth out of the land of Egypt; and in the morning you shall see the glory of the Lord.
$Deo gratias
_
_
! The following responsory is then sung as Gradual:
!!Graduale
!John 11:47-49, 50, 53
R. The chief priests and the Pharisees gathered a council and said: What do we, for this man doth many miracles? If we let Him alone so, all will believe in Him;
* And the Romans will come, and take away our place and nation.
V. But one of them, called Caiphas, being the high priest that year, prophesied, saying: It is expedient for you that one man should die for the people, and that the whole nation perish not. From that day, therefore, they devised to put Him to death, saying:
* And the Romans will come, and take away our place and nation.
_
! Or this other:
!Matt 26:39, 41
R. On mount Olivet He prayer to His Father: Father, if it may be, let this chalice pass from Me.
* The spirit is indeed willing, but the flesh weak; Thy will be done.
V. Watch and pray, that ye enter not into temptation.
* The spirit is indeed willing, but the flesh weak; Thy will be done.
_
_
! Meanwhile, while the responsory is sung, the deacon puts the gospel book on the altar and the priest puts incense into the thurible. Prayer Munda cor, etc. 
v. Cleanse my heart and my lips, O almighty God, who didst cleanse the lips of the prophet Isaias with a burning coal, and vouchsafe, through Thy gracious mercy, so to purify me, that I may worthily announce Thy holy Gospel. Through Christ our Lord. Amen. 
! Afterwards he takes the book from the altar, and again kneeling down before the priest, asks his blessing, saying:
D. Sir, give me thy blessing. 	
! The priest answers:
P. The Lord be in thy heart and on thy lips, that thou mayest worthily and in a becoming manner, proclaim His holy Gospel. In the name of the Father, the Son + and the Holy Spirit. Amen.
! The Gospel is sung by the deacon with all the ceremonies usual at High Mass.
!!GOSPEL 
Continuation ++ of the holy Gospel according to St. Matthew.
R. Glory be to Thee, O Lord.
!Matth. 21:1-9
At that time, when Jesus drew nigh to Jerusalem, and was come to Bethphage, unto Mount Olivet, then He sent two disciples, saying to them: Go ye into the village that is over against you, and immediately you shall find an ass tied, and a colt with her; loose them and bring them to Me; and if any man shall say anything to you, say ye that the Lord hath need of them; and forthwith he will let them go. Now all this was done that it might be fulfilled which was spoken by the prophet, saying: Tell ye the daughter of Sion: Behold thy King cometh to thee meek, and sitting upon an ass, and a colt the foal of her that is used to the yoke. And the disciples going did as Jesus commanded them. And they brought the ass and the colt, and laid their garments upon them, and made Him sit thereon. And a very great multitude spread their garments in the way, and others cut boughs from the trees, and strewed them in the way, and the multitudes that went before and that followed cried, saying: Hosanna to the Son of David; Blessed is He that cometh in the Name of the Lord.
R. Praise be to Thee, O Christ.
S. By the words of the Gospel may our sins be blotted out.
_
_
!!Blessing of the palms.
! The priest still standing at the epistle corner, sings:
$Dominus vobiscum
$Oremus
v. Increase, O God, the faith of them that hope in Thee, and in Thy mercy hear the prayers of Thy suppliant people; let Thy multiplied mercy descend upon us, and may these branches of palm - olive - trees be blessed; and as in a figure of Thy Church Thou didst multiply Noah going forth from the ark, and Moses going out of Egypt with the children of Israel, so may we go forth to meet Christ with good works, bearing palms and olive branches; and enter through Him into everlasting joy;
$Qui tecum
V. The Lord be with you.
R. And with thy spirit.
V. Lift up your hearts.
R. We have them lifted up to the Lord.
V. Let us give thanks to the Lord our God.
R. It is meet and just. It is truly meet and just, right and availing unto salvation, that we should always and in all places give thanks unto Thee, O Lord, Father almighty, everlasting God. Who dost glory in the assembly of Thy Saints. For Thy creatures serve Thee, because they acknowledge Thee as their only Creator and God; and Thy whole creation praiseth Thee, and Thy Saints bless Thee. For with free voice they confess that great Name of Thine only-begotten Son before the kings and powers of this world. Around whom the Angels and Archangels, the Thrones and Dominions stand; and with all the host of the heavenly army, sing the hymn of Thy glory, saying without ceasing:
! The priest says and the choir sings:
v. Holy, Holy, Holy, Lord God of hosts. Heaven and earth are full of Thy glory. Hosanna in the highest. Blessed is He that cometh in the Name of the Lord. Hosanna in the highest.
_
_
! The priest continues:
$Dominus vobiscum
$Oremus
v. We beseech Thee, O holy Lord, almighty Father, everlasting God, that Thou wouldst vouchsafe to bless + and hallow + this creature of the olive tree, which Thou didst cause to shoot out of the substance of the wood, and which the dove when returning to the ark brought in its mouth: that whosoever shall receive it may find protection of soul and body; and that it may be to us, O Lord, a saving remedy and the sacred sign of Thy grace.
$Per Dominum
_
_
$Oremus
v. O God, who dost gather what is dispersed abroad, and preserve what is gathered together; who didst bless the people who went forth to meet Jesus, bearing branches of palms; bless + likewise these branches of palm and olive, which Thy servants receive faithfully in honor of Thy Name; that into whatsoever place they shall be brought, those who dwell in that place may obtain Thy blessing, and all adversities being removed, Thy right hand may protect those who have been redeemed by our Lord Jesus Christ, Thy Son.
$Qui tecum
_
_
$Oremus
v. O God, who, by the wonderful order of Thy disposition, hast been pleased to manifest the dispensation of our salvation even from things insensible: grant, we beseech Thee, that the devout hearts of Thy faithful may understand to their benefit what is mystically signified by the fact that on this day the multitude, taught by a eavenly illumination, went forth to meet their Redeemer, and strewed branches of palms and olive at His feet. The branches of palms, therefore, represent His triumphs over the prince of death; and the branches of olive proclaim, in a manner, the coming of a spiritual unction. For that pious multitude understood that these things were then prefigured; that our Redeemer, compassionating human miseries, was about to fight with the prince of death for the life of the whole world, and, by dying, to triumph. For which cause they dutifully ministered such things as signified in Him the triumphs of victory and the richness of mercy. And we also, with full faith, retaining this as done and signified, humbly beseech Thee, O holy Lord, Father almighty, everlasting God, through the same Jesus Christ our Lord, that in Him and through Him, whose members Thou hast been pleased to make us, we may become victorious over the empire of death, and may deserve to be partakers of His glorious Resurrection.
$Qui vivis
_
_
$Oremus
v. O God, who by an olive branch didst command the dove to proclaim peace to the earth: hallow, we beseech Thee, by Thy heavenly blessing these branches of the olive and other trees; that they may profit all Thy people unto salvation. Through Christ our Lord.
R. Amen.
_
_
$Oremus
v. Bless, + we beseech Thee, O Lord, these branches of palm (olive): and grant that what Thy people today bodily perform for Thy honor, they may perfect spiritually with the utmost devotion, by gaining the victory over the enemy, and ardently loving every work of mercy.
$Per Dominum
_
_
! Here the celebrant puts incense into the thurible and sprinkles the palms thrice with holy water, reciting the anthem Asperges me without the psalm; then he incenses them thrice, and preceeds:
$Dominus vobiscum
$Oremus
v. O God, who for our salvation didst send into this world Thy Son Jesus Christ our Lord, that He might humble Himself unto our state, and call us back to Thee; for whom also, as He entered into Jerusalem to fulfill the Scriptures, a multitude of faithful people, with zealous devotion, strewed their garments, with palm branches, in the way: grant, we beseech Thee, that we may prepare for Him the way of faith, from which the stone of offense and rock of scandal being removed, our works may flourish before Thee with branches of justice, that so we may be found worthy to follow His footsteps:
$Qui tecum
_
_
!!PUERI HEBRAEORUM
! When the blessing is finished, the first in rank among the clergy goes up to the altar and gives a palm to the celebrant, who neither genuflects nor kisses his hand. The priest then distributes the palms, first to the clergy, and afterwards to the laity, who all genuflect and kiss both the palm and the hand of the celebrant. Meanwhile the choir sings the following anthems
!Antiphona
!Ps 12:13
Ant. The Hebrew children bearing olive branches, went forth to meet the Lord, crying out, and saying, Hosanna in the highest. 
_
!Alia Antiphona
!Matt 21:8 et 9
Ant. The Hebrew children spread their garments in the way, and cried out, saying: Hosanna to the Son of God: blessed is He that cometh in the Name of the Lord.
! If there are not enough, they must be repeated until the distribution of palms is finished. Then the celebrant says:
$Dominus vobiscum
$Oremus
v. Almighty and everlasting God, who didst ordain that our Lord Jesus Christ should sit upon the foal of an ass, and didst teach the multitude to spread their garments or branches of trees in the way and to sing Hosanna to His praise: grant, we beseech Thee, that we may be able to imitate their innocence and deserve to partake of their merit.
$Per eundem
_
_
! The procession of palms now takes place. When the priest places incense in the thurible, the deacon, turning towards the people, sings:
V. Let us go forth in peace.
R. In the Name of Christ, Amen.
! The thurifer precedes with the smoking censer, followed by the subdeacon, bearing the processional cross between two acolytes carrying lighted candles. Then follow the clergy in order of rank, and finally the celebrant with the deacon on his left. All carry palms, and all or some of them sing the following anthems, during the whole time the procession lasts.
!Antiphon
!Matth. 21:1-3, 7, 8, 9
v. When our Lord drew nigh to Jerusalem, He sent two of His disciples, saying: Go ye into the village over against you; and you shall find an ass's colt tied, on which no man hath sat: loose it, and bring it to Me. If any man shall question you, say: The Lord hath need of it. They loosed it and brought it to Jesus, and laid their garments upon it, and He seated Himself on it; some spread their garments in the way; others strewed branches from the trees; and those who followed cried out: Hosanna! Blessed is He that cometh in the Name of the Lord; blessed be the reign of our father David! Hosanna in the highest! O Son of David, have mercy on us! 
_
!Antiphon 
!John 12:12-13
v. When the people heard that Jesus was coming to Jerusalem, they took palm branches, and went forth to meet Him; and the children cried out, saying: This is He that is come for the salvation of the people. He is our salvation, and the redemption of Israel. How great is He whom the Thrones and Dominions go forth to meet! Fear not, O daughter of Sion; behold thy King cometh to thee sitting on an ass's colt, as it is written. Hail, O King, Creator of the world, who art come to redeem us!
_
v. Six days before the solemn feast of the Passover, when our Lord came into the city of Jerusalem, the children met Him: and in their hands they caried palm branches, and they cried out with a loud voice, saying: Hosanna in the highest! Blessed art Thou who art come in the multitude of Thy mercy. Hosanna in the highest!
_
v. The multitude goeth forth to meet our Redeemer with flowers and palms, and payeth the homage due to a triumphant Conqueror: the Gentiles proclaim the Son of God; and their voices thunder through the skies in praise of Christ: Hosanna in the highest!
_
v. Let the faithful join with the Angels and children, singing to the Conqueror of dath: Hosanna in the highest!
_
v. A great multitude that was met together at the festival cried out to the Lord: Blessed is He that cometh in the Name of the Lord: Hosanna in the Highest!
_
_
! At the return of the procession two or four cantors go into the church and, shutting the door, stand facing towards the procession, singing the two first verses of the Gloria laus. These the priest repeats with those who are outside the church. The other verses, all or in part as may be found desirable, are then sung by those within, thoses remaining ourside answering Gloria, laus . . . after every second verse:
_
V. Glory, praise and honor to Thee, O King Christ, the Redeemer: to whom children poured their glad and sweet hosanna's song.
R. Glory, praise and honor to Thee, O King Christ, the Redeemer: to whom children poured their glad and sweet hosanna's song.
_
v. Hail, King of Israel! David's Son of royal fame! Who comest in the Name of the Lord, O Blessed King.
R. Glory, praise and honor to Thee, O King Christ, the Redeemer: to whom children poured their glad and sweet hosanna's song.
_
v. The Angel host laud Thee on high, On earth mankind, with all created things.
_
R. Glory, praise and honor to Thee, O King Christ, the Redeemer: to whom children poured their glad and sweet hosanna's song.
_
v. With palms the Jews went forth to meet Thee. We greet Thee now with prayers and hymns.
_
R. Glory, praise and honor to Thee, O King Christ, the Redeemer: to whom children poured their glad and sweet hosanna's song.
_
v. On Thy way to die, they crowned Thee with praise; We raise our song to Thee, now King on high.
_
R. Glory, praise and honor to Thee, O King Christ, the Redeemer: to whom children poured their glad and sweet hosanna's song.
_
v. Their poor homage pleased Thee, O gracious King! O clement King, accept too ours, the best that we can bring.
_
R. Glory, praise and honor to Thee, O King Christ, the Redeemer: to whom children poured their glad and sweet hosanna's song.
_
_
! After this, the subdeacon knocks thrice on the door with the shaft of the processional cross: when the door is opened, the procession enters the church, singing:
!!RESPONSORY
v. As our Lord entered the holy city, the Hebrew children, declaring the resuurection of life, 
* With palm branches, cried out: Hosanna in the highest.
V. When the people heard that Jesus was coming to Jerusalem, they went forth to meet Him:
* With palm branches, cried out: Hosanna in the highest.
_
! The Gloria Patri is not said. The Mass is then celebrated, and at Mass all hold the palms in their hands while the Passion and Gospel are sung.

[Introitus]
!Ps 21:20, 22
v. O Lord, be not far from me; O my help, hasten to aid me. Save me from the lion's mouth; form the horns of the wild bulls, my wretched life.
!Ps 21:2
My God, my God, look upon me, why have You forsaken me? Far from my salvation are the words of my sins.
v. O Lord, be not far from me; O my help, hasten to aid me. Save me from the lion's mouth; form the horns of the wild bulls, my wretched life.

[Oratio]
Almighty, eternal God, Who, to provide mankind an example of humility for it to imitate, willed that the Saviour should assume our flesh and suffer death upon the Cross, mercifully grant that we may be found worthy of the lesson of His endurance and the fellowship of His resurrection.
$Per eumdem

[Lectio]
Lesson from the letter of St. Paul to the Philippians
!Phil 2:5-11
Brethren: Have this in mind in you which was also in Christ Jesus, Who, though He was by nature God, did not consider being equal to God a thing to be clung to, but emptied Himself, taking the nature of a slave and being made like unto men. And appearing in the form of man, He humbled Himself, becoming obedient to death, even to death on a cross. Therefore God also has exalted Him and has bestowed upon Him the Name that is above every name, (Kneel) so that at the Name of Jesus every knee should bend of those in heaven, on earth and under the earth and every tongue should confess that the Lord Jesus Christ is in the glory of God the Father.

[Graduale]
!Ps 72:24, 1-3
You have hold of my right hand; with Your counsel You guide me; and in the end You will receive me in glory.
V. How good God is to Israel, to those who are clean of heart! But, as for me, I almost lost my balance; my feet all but slipped, because I was envious of sinners when I saw them prosper though they were wicked.
_
!Tractus
!Ps 21:2-9, 18-19, 22, 24, 32
My God, my God, look upon me: why have You forsaken me?
V. Far from my salvation, are the words of my sins.
V. O my God, I cry out by day and You answer not; by night, and there is no relief.
V. But You are enthroned in the holy place, O glory of Israel!
V. In You our fathers trusted; they trusted and You delivered them.
V. To You they cried, and they escaped; in You they trusted, and they were not put to shame.
V. But I am a worm, not a man; the scorn of men, despised by the people.
V. All who see me, scoff at me; they mock me with parted lips, they wag their heads.
V. He relied on the Lord; let Him deliver him, let Him rescue him, if He loves him.
V. But they look on and gloat over me; they divide my garments among them, and for my vesture they cast lots.
V. Save me from the lion's mouth; from the horns of the wild bulls, my wretched life.
V. You who fear the Lord, praise Him: all you descendants of Jacob, give glory to Him.
V. There shall be declared to the Lord a generation to come: and the heavens shall show forth His justice.
V. To a people that shall be born, which the Lord has made.

[Evangelium1]
The Passion of Our Lord Jesus Christ according to Matthew.
!Matt 26:1-75; 27:1-66

[Evangelium2]
At that time Jesus said to His disciples: J. You know that after two~
days shall be the Pasch, and the Son of Man shall be delivered up to be~
crucified. C. Then were gathered together the chief priests and ancients~
of the people, into the court of the high priest, who was called~
Caiphas; and they consulted together, that by subtlety they might~
apprehend Jesus, and put Him to death. But they said: S. Not on the~
festival day, lest perhaps there should be a tumult among the people. C.~
And when Jesus was in Bethania, in the house of Simon the leper, there~
came to Him a woman having an alabaster box of precious ointment and~
poured it on His head as He was at table. And the disciples seeing it~
had indignation, saying: S. To what purpose is this waste? For this~
might have been sold for much and given to the poor. C. And Jesus~
knowing it, said to them: J. Why do you trouble this woman? For she hath~
wrought a good work upon Me. For the poor you have always with you; but~
Me you have not always. For she, in pouring this ointment upon My Body,~
hath done it for My burial. Amen I say to you, wheresoever this gospel~
shall be preached in the whole world, that also which she hath done~
shall be told for a memory of her. C. Then went one of the twelve, who~
was called Judas Iscariot, to the chief priests, and he said to them: S.~
What will you give me; and I will deliver Him unto you? C. But they~
appointed him thirty pieces of silver. And from thenceforth he sought~
opportunity to betray Him.  And on the first day of the Azymes the~
disciples came to Jesus, saying: S.Where wilt Thou that we prepare for~
Thee to eat the pasch? C. But Jesus said: J. Go ye into the city to a~
certain man, and say to him: The master saith, My time is near at hand,~
with thee I make the pasch with My disciples. C. And the disciples did~
as Jesus appointed to them; and they prepared the pasch. But when it was~
evening, He sat down with His twelve disciples; and whilst they were~
eating, He said: J. Amen I say to you that one of you is about to betray~
Me. C. And they, being very much troubled, began every one to say: S. Is~
it I, Lord? C. But He answering, said: J. He that dippeth his hand with~
Me in the dish, he shall betray Me. The Son of Man indeed goeth, as it~
is written of Him; but woe to that man by whom the Son of Man shall be~
betrayed; it were better for him, if that man had not been born. C. And~
Judas that betrayed Him, answering said: S. Is it I, Rabbi? C. He saith~
to him: J. Thou hast said it. C. And whilst they were at supper, Jesus~
took bread, and blessed and broke and gave to His disciples, and said:~
J. Take ye and eat; this is My Body. C. And taking the chalice, He gave~
thanks and gave to them, saying: J. Drink ye all of this. For this is My~
testament, which shall be shed for many unto the remission of sins. And~
I say to you, I will not drink from henceforth of this fruit of the vine~
until that day when I shall drink it with you new in the kingdom of My~
Father. C. And a hymn being said, they went out unto Mount Olivet. Then~
Jesus saith to them: J. All you shall be scandalized in Me this night;~
for it is written: I will strike the shepherd, and the sheep of the~
flock shall be dispersed; but after I shall be risen again, I will go~
before you into Galilee. C. And Peter, answering, said to Him: S.~
Although all shall be scandalized in Thee, I will never be scandalized.~
C. Jesus said to him: J. Amen I say to thee, that in this night, before~
the cock crow, thou wilt deny Me thrice. C. Peter saith to Him: S. Yea,~
though I should die with Thee, I will not deny Thee. C. And in like~
manner said all the disciples.

[Evangelium3]
Then Jesus came with them into a country~
place which is called Gethsemani; and He said to His disciples: J. Sit~
you here, till I go yonder and pray. C. And taking with Him Peter and~
the two sons of Zebedee, He began to grow sorrowful and to be sad. Then~
He saith to them: J. My soul is sorrowful even unto death; stay you here~
and watch with Me. C. And going a little further, He fell upon His face,~
praying and saying: J. My Father, if it be possible, let this chalice~
pass from Me; nevertheless, not as I will, but as Thou wilt. C. And He~
cometh to His disciples, and findeth them asleep. And He saith to Peter:~
J. What! Could you not watch one hour with Me? Watch ye, and pray that~
ye enter not into temptation. The spirit indeed is willing, but the~
flesh is weak. C. Again the second time, He went and prayed, saying: J.~
My Father, if this chalice may not pass away, but I must drink it, Thy~
will be done. C. And He cometh again, and findeth them sleeping, for~
their eyes were heavy. And leaving them, He went again and He prayed the~
third time, saying the self-same word. Then He cometh to His disciples,~
and saith to them: J. Sleep ye now and take your rest; behold, the hour~
is at hand, and the Son of Man shall be betrayed into the hands of~
sinners. Rise, let us go; behold, he is at hand that will betray Me.  C.~
As He yet spoke, behold Judas, one of the twelve, came, and with him a~
great multitude with swords and clubs, sent from the chief priests and~
the ancients of the people. And he that betrayed Him gave them a sign,~
saying: S. Whomsoever I shall kiss, that is He; hold Him fast. C. And~
forthwith coming to Jesus, he said: S. Hail, Rabbi. C. And he kissed~
Him. And Jesus said to him: J. Friend, whereto art thou come? C. Then~
they came up and laid hands on Jesus, and held Him. And behold one of~
them that were with Jesus, stretching forth his hand, drew out his~
sword, and striking the servant of the high priest, cut off his ear.~
Then Jesus saith to him: J. Put up again thy sword into its place; for~
all that take the sword shall perish with the sword. Thinkest thou that~
I cannot ask My Father, and He will give Me presently more than twelve~
legions of Angels? How then shall the Scriptures be fulfilled, that so~
it must be done? C. In that same hour Jesus said to the multitudes: J.~
You are come out, as it were to a robber, with swords and clubs to~
apprehend Me. I sat daily with you, teaching in the temple, and you laid~
not hands on Me. C. Now all this was done that the Scriptures of the~
prophets might be fulfilled. Then the disciples, all leaving Him, fled.~
But they holding Jesus led Him to Caiphas the high priest, where the~
scribes and the ancients were assembled. And Peter followed Him afar~
off, even to the court of the high priest. And going in, he sat with the~
servants, that he might see the end. And the chief priests and the whole~
council sought false witness against Jesus, that they might put Him to~
death. And they found none, whereas many false witnesses had come in.~
And last of all there came two false witnesses; and they said: This man~
said, I am able to destroy the temple of God, and after three days to~
rebuild it. And the high priest, rising up, said to Him: S. Answerest~
Thou nothing to the things which these witness against Thee? C. But~
Jesus held His peace. And the high priest said to Him: S. I adjure Thee~
by the living God, that Thou tell us if Thou be the Christ the Son of~
God. C. Jesus saith to him: J. Thou hast said it. Nevertheless I say to~
you, hereafter you shall see the Son of Man sitting on the right hand of~
the power of God, and coming in the clouds of heaven. C. Then the high~
priest rent his garments, saying: S. He hath blasphemed; what further~
need have we of witnesses? Behold, now you have heard the blasphemy.~
What think you? C. But they answering, said: S. He is guilty of death.~
C. Then they did spit in His face and buffeted Him; and others struck~
His face with the palms of their hands, saying: S. Prophesy unto us, O~
Christ, who is he that struck Thee?  C. But Peter sat without in the~
court, and there came to him a servant maid, saying: S. Thou also wast~
with Jesus the Galilean. C. But he denied it before them all, saying: S.~
I know not what thou sayest. C. And as he went out of the gate, another~
maid saw him, and she saith to them that were there: S. This man also~
was with Jesus of Nazareth. C. And again he denied it with an oath: S. I~
know not the man. C. And after a little while, they came that stood by~
and said to Peter: S. Surely thou also art one of them; for even thy~
speech doth discover thee. C. Then he began to curse and to swear that~
he knew not the man; and immediately the cock crew. And Peter remembered~
the words of Jesus which He had said: before the cock crow, thou wilt~
deny Me thrice. And going forth, he wept bitterly. And when morning was~
come, all the chief priests and ancients ofthe people took counsel~
against Jesus, that they might put Him to death. And they brought Him~
bound, and delivered Him to Pontius Pilate the governor.  Then Judas,~
who betrayed Him, seeing that He was condemned, repenting himself,~
brought back the thirty pieces of silver to the chief priests and~
ancients, saying: S. I have sinned in betraying innocent blood. C. But~
they said: S. What is that to us? Look thou to it. C. And casting down~
the pieces of silver in the temple, he departed, and went and hanged~
himself with a halter. But the chief priests having taken the pieces of~
silver, said: S. It is not lawful to put them into the corbona, because~
it is the price of blood. And after they had consulted together, they~
bought with them the potter's field, to be a burying-place for~
strangers. For this cause that field was called Haceldama, that is, the~
field of blood, even to this day. Then was fulfilled that which was~
spoken by Jeremias the prophet, saying: And they took the thirty pieces~
of silver, the price of Him that was prized, whom they prized of the~
children of Israel: and they gave them unto the potter's field, as the~
Lord appointed to me.  And Jesus stood before the governor, and the~
governor asked Him, saying: S.Art Thou the King of the Jews? C. Jesus~
saith to him: J. Thou sayest it. C. And when He was accused by the chief~
priests and ancients, He answered nothing. Then Pilate saith to Him: S.~
Dost not Thou hear how great testimonies they allege against Thee? C.~
And He answered to him never a word, so that the governor wondered~
exceedingly. Now upon the solemn day the governor was accustomed to~
release to the people one prisoner, whom they would. And he had then a~
notorious prisoner that was called Barabbas. They therefore being~
gathered together, Pilate said: S. Whom will you that I release to you:~
Barabbas, or Jesus that is called Christ? C. For he knew that for envy~
they had delivered Him. And as he was sitting in the place of judgment~
his wife sent to him, saying: S. Have thou nothing to do with that just~
man, for I have suffered many things this day in a dream because of Him.~
C. But the chief priests and ancients persuaded the people that they~
should ask Barabbas, and make Jesus away. And the governor answering,~
said to them: S. Whither will you of the two to be released unto you? C.~
But they said: S. Barabbas. C. Pilate saith to them: S. What shall I do~
then with Jesus that is called Christ? C. They all call: S. Let Him be~
crucified. C. The governor said to them: S. Why, what evil hath He done?~
C. But they cried out the more, saying: S. Let Him be crucified. C. And~
Pilate seeing that he prevailed nothing, but that rather a tumult was~
made, taking water washed his hands before the people, saying: S. I am~
innocent of the blood of this just man; look you to it. C. And the whole~
people answering, said: S. His blood be upon us and upon our children.~
C. Then he released to them Barabbas, and having scourged Jesus,~
delivered Him unto them to be crucified. Then the soldiers of the~
governor, taking Jesus into the hall, gathered together unto Him the~
whole band; and stripping Him they put a scarlet cloak about Him. And~
platting a crown of thorns they put it upon His head and a reed in His~
right hand. And bowing the knee before Him, they mocked Him, saying: S.~
Hail, King of the Jews. C. And spitting upon Him, they took the reed and~
struck His head. And after they had mocked Him, they took off the cloak~
from Him, and put on Him His own garments, and led Him away to crucify~
Him.  And going out, they found a man of Cyrene, named Simon; him they~
forced to take up His cross. And they came to the place that is called~
Golgotha, which is, the place of Calvary. And they gave Him wine to~
drink mingled with gall; and when He had tasted He would not drink. And~
after they had crucified Him, they divided His garments, casting lots;~
that it might be fulfilled which was spoken by the prophet, saying: They~
divided My garments among them, and upon my vesture they cast lots. And~
they sat and watched Him. And they put over His head His cause written:~
This is Jesus the King of the Jews. Then were crucified with Him two~
thieves; one on the right hand and one on the left. And they that passed~
by blasphemed Him, wagging their heads, and saying: S. Vah, Thou that~
destroyest the temple of God and in three days dost rebuild it, save~
Thine own self. If Thou be the Son of God, come down from the cross. C.~
In like manner also the chief priests with the scribes and ancients,~
mocking, said: S. He saved others, Himself He cannot save; if He be the~
king of Israel, let Him now come down from the cross, and we will~
believe Him; He trusted in God, let Him now deliver Him if He will have~
Him; for He said: I am the Son of God. C. And the self-same thing the~
thieves also that were crucified with Him reproached Him with. Now from~
the sixth hour there was a darkness over the whole earth, until the~
ninth hour.  And about the ninth hour, Jesus cried out with a loud~
voice, saying: J. Eli, Eli, lamma sabacthani? C. That is: J. My God, My~
God, why hast Thou forsaken Me? C. And some that stood there and heard~
said: S. This man calleth Elias. C. And immediately one of them running~
took a sponge and filled it with vinegar and and gave Him to drink. And~
the others said: S. Let be; let us see whether Elias will come to~
deliver Him. C. And Jesus again crying with a loud voice, yielded up the~
ghost.
!Here all kneel and pause for a few moments.
And behold the~
veil of the temple was rent in two from top even to the bottom; and the~
earth quaked and the rocks were rent; and the graves were opened, and~
many bodies of the saints that had slept arose, and coming out of the~
tombs after His resurrection, came into the holy city, and appeared to~
many. Now the centurion and they that were with him watching Jesus,~
having seen the earthquake and the things that were done, were sore~
afraid, saying: S. Indeed this was the Son of God. C. And there were~
there many women afar off, who had followed Jesus from Galilee,~
ministering unto Him: among whom was Mary Magdalen, and Mary the mother~
of James and Joseph, and the mother of the sons of Zebedee.  And when it~
was evening, there came a certain rich man of Arimathea, named Joseph,~
who also himself was a disciple of Jesus. He went to Pilate and asked~
the body of Jesus. Then Pilate commanded that the body should be~
delivered. And Joseph taking the body wrapt it up in a clean linen~
cloth, and laid it in his own new monument, which he had hewed out in a~
rock. And he rolled a great stone to the door of the monument and went~
his way.

[Evangelium4]
And there was Mary Magdalen and the other Mary, sitting over~
against the sepulchre.
_
v. Cleanse my heart and my lips, O almighty~
God, who didst cleanse the lips of the prophet Isaias with a burning~
coal, and vouchsafe, through Thy gracious mercy, so to purify me, that I~
may worthily announce Thy holy Gospel. Through Christ our Lord. Amen.
D. Sir, give me thy blessing.
S. The Lord be in thy heart and on thy lips,~
that thou mayst worthily and in a becoming manner, proclaim His holy Gospel.~
In the name of the Father, and of the Son, + and of the Holy Ghost. Amen.
_
v. And the next day, which followed the day of preparation, the chief priests and~
the Pharisees came together to Pilate, saying: Sir, we have remembered~
that that seducer said, while He was yet alive: After three days I will~
rise again. Command therefore the sepulchre to be guarded until the~
third day, lest perhaps His disciples come and steal Him away and say to~
the people: He is risen; and the last error shall be worse than the~
first. Pilate saith to them: You have a guard; go, guard it as you know.~
And they departing, make the sepulchre sure, sealing the stone and~
setting guards.

[Evangelium]
@:Evangelium1
@:Evangelium2
@:Evangelium3
@:Evangelium4

[Offertorium]
!Ps 68:21-22
Insult has broken my heart, and I am weak; I looked for sympathy, but there was none; for comforters, and I found none. Rather they put gall in My food and in My thirst they gave Me vinegar to drink.

[Secreta]
Grant, we beseech You, almighty God, that the gift offered in the sight of Your majesty may obtain for us the grace of reverent devotion and assure us eternal happiness.
$Per Dominum

[Communio]
!Matt 26:42
Father, if this cup cannot pass away, unless I drink it, Your will be done.

[Postcommunio]
By the working of this sacred rite, O Lord, may our sins be erased and our just desires fulfilled.
$Per Dominum

