[Rank]
Feria Quarta infra Hebdomadam Passionis;;Feria major;;2

[Rule]
no Gloria
Suffragium=Ecclesiae,Papa;;
Prefatio=Quad5
Super popul

[Introitus]
!Ps 17:48-49
v. My deliverer from the angry nations; truly above my adversaries You exalt me and from the violent man You have rescued me, O Lord.
!Ps 17:2-3
I love You, O Lord, my strength, O Lord, my rock, my fortress, my deliverer.
v. My deliverer from the angry nations; truly above my adversaries You exalt me and from the violent man You have rescued me, O Lord.

[Oratio]
In Your mercy, O Lord, may this hallowing fast enlighten the hearts of Your faithful people, and since You have given them the desire to serve You, lend a gracious ear to their prayers.
$Per Dominum

[Lectio]
Lesson from the book of Leviticus
!Lev 19:1-2, 11-19, 25
In those days, the Lord said to Moses, Speak to the whole Israelite community and tell them: I, the Lord, am your God. You shall not steal. You shall not lie or speak falsely to one another. You shall not swear falsely by My Name, thus profaning the Name of your God. I am the Lord. You shall not defraud or rob your neighbor. You shall not withhold overnight the wages of your day laborer. You shall not curse the deaf, or put a stumbling block in front of the blind, but you shall fear the Lord your God, because I am the Lord. You shall not act dishonestly in rendering judgment. Show neither partiality to the weak nor deference to the mighty, but judge your fellow men justly. You shall not go about spreading slander among your kinsmen; nor shall you stand by idly when your neighbor’s life is at stake. I am the Lord. You shall not bear hatred for your brother in your heart. Though you may have to reprove your fellow man, do not incur sin because of him. Take no revenge and cherish no grudge against your fellow countrymen. You shall love your neighbor as yourself. I am the Lord. Keep my statutes. For I am the Lord your God.

[Graduale]
!Ps 29:2-4
I will extol You, O Lord, for You drew me clear and did not let my enemies rejoice over me.
V. O Lord, my God, I cried out to You and You healed me, O Lord, You brought me up from the nether world; You preserved me from among those going down into the pit.
_
!Tractus
!Ps 102:10
O Lord, deal with us not according to our sins, nor requite us according to our crimes.
!Ps 78:8-9
V. O Lord, remember not against us the iniquities of the past; may Your compassion quickly come to us, for we are brought very low. (kneel)
V. Help us, O God, our Saviour, because of the glory of Your Name, O Lord; deliver us and pardon our sins for Your Name’s sake.

[Evangelium]
Continuation of the Holy Gospel according to John
!John 10:22-38
At that time, there took place at Jerusalem the feast of the Dedication; and it was winter. And Jesus was walking in the temple, in Solomon’s portico. The Jews therefore gathered round Him, and said to Him, How long do You keep us in suspense? If You are the Christ, tell us openly. Jesus answered them, I tell you and you do not believe. The works that I do in the name of My Father, these bear witness concerning Me. But you do not believe because you are not of My sheep. My sheep hear My voice, and I know them and they follow Me. And I give them everlasting life; and they shall never perish, neither shall anyone snatch them out of My hand. What My Father has given Me is greater than all; and no one is able to snatch anything out of the hand of My Father. I and the Father are one. The Jews therefore took up stones to stone him. Jesus answered them, Many good works have I shown you from My Father. For which of these works do you stone Me? The Jews answered Him, Not for a good work do we stone you, but for blasphemy, and because You, being a man, make Yourself God. Jesus answered them, Is it not written in your Law, ‘I said you are gods?’ If He called them gods to whom the word of God was addressed - and the Scripture cannot be broken, - do you say of Him Whom the Father has made holy and sent into the world, ‘You blaspheme,’ because I said, ‘I am the Son of God’? If I do not perform the works of My Father, do not believe Me. But if I do perform them, and if you are not willing to believe Me, believe the works, that you may know and believe that the Father is in Me and I in the Father.

[Offertorium]
!Ps 58:2
Rescue me from my enemies, O my God; from my adversaries defend me, O Lord.

[Secreta]
O merciful God, permit us to offer in sincere submission the gift of satisfaction and praise.
$Per Dominum

[Communio]
!Ps 25:6-7
I wash my hands in innocence, and I go around Your altar, O Lord, giving voice to my thanks, and recounting all Your wondrous deeds.

[Postcommunio]
We who have shared in the blessing of the heavenly gift humbly pray You, almighty God, that it may be for us the source of sacramental grace and salvation.
$Per Dominum

[Super populum]
!Prayer over the people
v. Let us pray.
v. Bow your heads to God.
v. Comply with our humble prayers, almighty God, and graciously grant Your habitual mercy to those upon whom You lavish confidence in the expectation of Your goodness.
$Per Dominum
