[Rank]
Feria Quinta infra Hebdomadam Passionis;;Feria major;;2

[Rule]
no Gloria
Suffragium=Ecclesiae,Papa;;
Prefatio=Quad5
Super popul

[Introitus]
!Dan 3:31
v. All that You have done to us, O Lord, You have done in true judgment: because we have sinned against You, and have not obeyed Your commandments: but give glory to Your Name, and deal with us according to the multitude of Your mercy.
!Ps 118:1
Happy are they whose way is blameless, who walk in the law of the Lord.
v. All that You have done to us, O Lord, You have done in true judgment: because we have sinned against You, and have not obeyed Your commandments: but give glory to Your Name, and deal with us according to the multitude of Your mercy.

[Oratio]
Grant, we beseech You, almighty God, that the dignity of human nature, weakened by excessive self-indulgence, may be restored by the earnest practice of healing self-denial.
$Per Dominum

[Lectio]
Lesson from the Prophecy of Daniel
!Dan 3:25, 34-45.
In those days, Azaria prayed to the Lord, saying: O Lord, our God, for Your Name’s sake, do not deliver us up forever, we beseech You, or make void Your covenant. Do not take away Your mercy from us, for the sake of Abraham, Your beloved, Isaac Your servant, and Israel Your holy one, to whom You promised to multiply their offspring like the stars of heaven, or the sand on the shore of the sea. For we are reduced, O Lord, beyond any other nation, brought low everywhere in the world this day because of our sins. We have in our day no prince, prophet, or leader, no holocaust, sacrifice, oblation, or incense, no place to offer first fruits, to find favor with You. But with contrite heart and humble spirit let us be received; as though it were holocausts of rams and bullocks, or thousands of fat lambs, so let our sacrifice be in Your presence today, that it may please You; for those who trust in You cannot be put to shame. And now we follow You with our whole heart, we fear You and we pray to You. Do not let us be put to shame, but deal with us in Your kindness and great mercy. Deliver us by Your wonders, and bring glory to Your Name, O Lord: let all those be routed who inflict evils on Your servants; let them be shamed and powerless, and their strength broken; let them know that You alone are the Lord God, glorious over the whole world, O Lord, our God.

[Graduale]
!Ps 95:8-9
Bring gifts and enter His courts; worship the Lord in His holy court.
!Ps 28:9
The Lord strips the forests, and in His temple all say, Glory!

[Evangelium]
Continuation of the Holy Gospel according to Luke
!Luke 7:36-50
At that time, one of the Pharisees asked Jesus to dine with him; so He went into the house of the Pharisee and reclined at table. And behold, a woman in the town who was a sinner, upon learning that He was at table in the Pharisee’s house, brought an alabaster jar of ointment; and standing behind Him at His feet, she began to bathe His feet with her tears, and wiped them with the hair of her head, and kissed His feet, and anointed them with ointment. Now when the Pharisee, who had invited Him, saw it, he said to himself, This man, were He a prophet, would surely know who and what manner of woman this is who is touching Him, for she is a sinner. And Jesus answered and said to him, Simon, I have something to say to you. And he said, Master, speak. A certain money-lender had two debtors; the one owed five hundred denarii, the other fifty. As they had no means of paying, he forgave them both. Which of them, therefore, will love him more? Simon answered and said, He, I suppose, to whom he forgave more. And He said to him, You have judged rightly. And turning to the woman, He said to Simon, Do you see this woman? I came into your house; you gave Me no water for My feet; but she has bathed My feet with tears, and has wiped them with her hair. You gave Me no kiss; but she, from the moment she entered, has not ceased to kiss My feet. You did not anoint my head with oil; but she has anointed My feet with ointment. Wherefore I say to you, her sins, many as they are, shall be forgiven her, because she has loved much. But he to whom little is forgiven, loves little. And He said to her, Your sins are forgiven. And they who were at table with Him began to say within themselves, Who is this man, who even forgives sins? But He said to the woman, Your faith has saved you; go in peace.

[Offertorium]
!Ps 136:1
By the streams of Babylon we sat and wept when we remembered Sion.

[Secreta]
O Lord, our God, Who have especially commanded that these created things, which You have fashioned for the support of our weakness, should also be used as offerings dedicated to Your Name, grant we beseech You, that they may provide for us help in the present life and may be a pledge of life eternal.
$Per Dominum

[Communio]
!Ps 118:49-50
Remember Your word to Your servant, O Lord, since You have given me hope. This is my comfort in my affliction.

[Postcommunio]
May we receive with pure mind, O Lord, what we have taken by mouth, and as a gift in time, may it become for us a remedy for eternity.
$Per Dominum

[Super populum]
!Prayer over the people
v. Let us pray.
v. Bow your heads to God.
v. Be merciful to Your people, we beseech You, O Lord, that as they reject whatever displeases You, they may the more delight in Your commandments.
$Per Dominum
