[Rank]
Dominica II in Quadragesima;;I classis Semiduplex;;6

[Rule]
no Gloria
Credo
Prefatio=Quadragesima
Suffragium=Sanctorum;Vivis;;

[Introitus]
!Ps 24:6, 3, 22
v. Remember that Your compassion, O Lord, and Your kindness are from of old; let not our enemies exult over us; deliver us, O God of Israel, from all our tribulations.
!Ps 24:1-2
To You I lift up my soul, O Lord; in You, O my God, I trust; let me not be put to shame.
&Gloria
v. Remember that Your compassion, O Lord, and Your kindness are from of old; let not our enemies exult over us; deliver us, O God of Israel, from all our tribulations.

[Oratio]
O God, You Who see how we are deprived of all strength, guard us inwardly and outwardly, that in body we may be protected against all misfortunes, and in mind cleansed of evil thoughts.
$Per Dominum

[Lectio]
Lesson from the first Letter of St. Paul to the Thessalonians
!1 Thess. 4:1-7
Brethren: Even as you have learned from us how you ought to walk to please God - as indeed you are walking - we beseech and exhort you in the Lord Jesus to make even greater progress. For you know what precepts I have given to you by the Lord Jesus. For this is the will of God, your sanctification; that you abstain from immorality; that every one of you learn how to possess his vessel in holiness and honor, not in the passion of lust like the Gentiles who do not know God; that no one transgress and overreach his brother in the matter, because the Lord is the avenger of all these things, as we have told you before and have testified. For God has not called us unto uncleanness, but unto holiness, in Christ Jesus our Lord.

[Graduale]
!Ps 24:17-18
Relieve the troubles of my heart and bring me out of my distress, O Lord.
V. Put an end to my affliction and my suffering, and take away all my sins.
_
!Tractus
!Ps 105:1-4
Give thanks to the Lord, for He is good, for His kindness endures forever.
V. Who can tell the mighty deeds of the Lord, or proclaim all His praises?
V. Happy are they who observe what is right, who do always what is just.
V. Remember us, O Lord, as You favor Your people; visit us with Your saving help.

[Evangelium]
Continuation of the Holy Gospel according to Matthew
!Matt 17:1-9
At that time, Jesus took Peter, James and his brother John, and led them up a high mountain by themselves, and was transfigured before them. And His face shone as the sun, and His garments became white as snow. And behold, there appeared to them Moses and Elias talking together with Him. Then Peter addressed Jesus, saying, Lord, it is good for us to be here. If You will, let us set up three tents here, one for You, one for Moses, and one for Elias. As he was still speaking, behold, a bright cloud overshadowed them, and behold, a voice out of the cloud said, This is My beloved Son, in Whom I am well pleased; hear Him. And on hearing it the disciplines fell on their faces and were exceedingly afraid. And Jesus came near and touched them, and said to them, Arise, and do not be afraid. But lifting up their eyes, they saw no one but Jesus only. And as they were coming down from the mountain, Jesus cautioned them, saying, Tell the vision to no one, till the Son of Man has risen from the dead.

[Offertorium]
!Ps 118:47-48
I will delight in Your commands, which I love exceedingly; and I will lift up my hands to Your commands, which I love.

[Secreta]
Look with favor, we beseech You, O Lord, upon the offerings here before You, that they may be beneficial for our devotion and for our salvation.
$Per Dominum

[Communio]
!Ps 5:2-4
Attend to my sighing; heed my call for help, my King and my God! To You I pray, O Lord.

[Postcommunio]
O almighty God, we humbly beseech You that those whom You refresh with Your sacrament may also worthily serve You in a way pleasing to You.
$Per Dominum
