[Rank]
Feria Quinta infra Hebdomadam I in Quadragesima;;Feria major;;2

[Rule]
no Gloria
Suffragium=Sanctorum;Vivis;;
Super popul

[Introitus]
!Ps 95.6.
v. Splendor and majesty go before Him; praise and grandeur are in His sanctuary.
!Ps 95:1
Sing to the Lord a new song; sing to the Lord, all you lands.
&Gloria
v. Splendor and majesty go before Him; praise and grandeur are in His sanctuary.

[Oratio]
We beseech You, O Lord, look graciously upon the fervor of Your people, who mortify themselves in the flesh through abstinence: that they may be refreshed in mind by the fruit of these good works.
$Per Dominum

[Lectio]
Lesson from the Prophecy of Ezechiel
!Ezech 18:1-9
In those days, the word of the Lord came to me: Son of man, what is the meaning of this proverb that you recite in the land of Israel: ‘Fathers have eaten green grapes, thus their children’s teeth are on edge’? As I live, says the Lord God, I swear that there shall no longer be anyone among you who will repeat this proverb in Israel. For all lives are Mine; the life of the father is like the life of the son, both are Mine; only the one who sins shall die. If a man is virtuous - if he does what is right and just, if he does not eat on the mountains, nor raise his eyes to the idols of the house of Israel; if he does not defile his neighbor’s wife, nor have relations with a woman in her menstrual period; if he oppresses no one, gives back the pledge received for a debt, commits no robbery; if he gives food to the hungry and clothes the naked; if he does not lend at interest nor exact usury; if he holds off from evil-doing, judges fairly between a man and his opponent; if he lives by My statutes and is careful to observe My ordinances, that man is virtuous - he shall surely live, says the Lord almighty.

[Graduale]
!Ps 16:8, 2
Keep me, O Lord, as the apple of Your eye; hide me in the shadow of Your wings.
V. From You let my judgment come; Your eyes behold what is right.

[Evangelium]
Continuation of the Holy Gospel according to Matthew
!Matt 15:21-28
At that time, leaving there, Jesus retired to the district of Tyre and Sidon. And behold, a Canaanite woman came out of that territory and cried out to Him, saying, Have pity on me, O Lord, Son of David! My daughter is sorely beset by a devil. He answered her not a word. And His disciples came up and besought Him, saying, Send her away, for she is crying after us. But He answered and said, I was not sent except to the lost sheep of the house of Israel. But she came and worshipped Him, saying, Lord, help me! He said in answer, It is not fair to take the children’s bread and to cast it to the dogs. But she said, Yes, Lord; for even the dogs eat of the crumbs that fall from their masters’ table. Then Jesus answered and said to her, O woman, great is your faith! Let it be done to you as you will. And her daughter was healed from that moment.

[Offertorium]
!Ps 33: 8-9
The angel of the Lord encamps around those who fear Him, and delivers them. Taste and see how good the Lord is.

[Secreta]
May these sacrificial gifts, we beseech You, O Lord, be the more effective unto our salvation since they have been aided by wholesome fasting.
$Per Dominum

[Communio]
!John 6:52
The bread that I will give is My Flesh for the life of the world.

[Postcommunio]
May Your generous grace sustain and help us, O Lord, in this world and make us new for the world to come.
$Per Dominum

[Super populum]
!Prayer over the people
v. Let us pray.
v. Bow your heads to God.
v. Grant we beseech You, O Lord, that Your faithful people may be aware of what they profess and may love the heavenly gift which they regularly receive.
$Per Dominum
