[Rank]
Dominica III in Quadragesima;;I classis Semiduplex;;6

[Rule]
no Gloria
Credo
Prefatio=Quad
Suffragium=Sanctorum;Vivis;;

[Introitus]
!Ps 24:15-16
v. My eyes are ever toward the Lord, for He will free my feet from the snare. Look toward me, and have pity on me, for I am alone and afflicted.
!Ps 24:1-2
To You I lift up my soul, O Lord. In You, O my God, I trust; let me not be put to shame.
&Gloria
v. My eyes are ever toward the Lord, for He will free my feet from the snare. Look toward me, and have pity on me, for I am alone and afflicted.

[Oratio]
We beseech You, almighty God, hear the prayers of the humble and stretch forth the right hand of Your majesty to protect us.
$Per Dominum

[Lectio]
Lesson from the letter of St. Paul to the Ephesians
!Eph 5:1-9
Brethren: Be imitators of God, as very dear children and walk in love, as Christ also loved us and delivered Himself up for us an offering and a sacrifice to God to ascend in fragrant odor. But immorality and every uncleanness or covetousness, let it not even be named among you, as becomes saints; or obscenity or foolish talk or scurrility, which are out of place; but rather thanksgiving. For know this and understand, that no fornicator, or unclean person, or covetous one - for that is idolatry - has any inheritance in the kingdom of Christ and God. Let no one lead you astray with empty words; for because of these things the wrath of God comes upon the children of disobedience. Do not, then, become partakers with them. For you were once darkness, but now you are light in the Lord. Walk, then, as children of light, for the fruit of the light is in all goodness and justice and truth.

[Graduale]
!Ps 9:20, 4
Rise, O Lord, let not man prevail; let the nations be judged in Your presence.
V. Because my enemies are turned back, overthrown and destroyed before You.
_
!Tractus
!Ps 122:1-3
To You I lift up my eyes, Who are enthroned in heaven.
V. Behold, as the eyes of servants are on the hands of their masters.
V. As the eyes of a maid are on the hands of her mistress, so are our eyes on the Lord our God, till He have pity on us.
V. Have pity on us, O Lord, have pity on us.

[Evangelium]
Continuation of the Holy Gospel according to Luke
!Luke 11:14-28
At that time, Jesus was casting out a devil, and the same was dumb; and when He had cast out the devil, the dumb man spoke. And the crowds marveled. But some of them said, By Beelzebub, the prince of devils, He casts out devils. And others, to test Him, demanded from Him a sign from heaven. But He, seeing their thoughts, said to them: Every kingdom divided against itself is brought to desolation, and house will fall upon house. If, then, Satan also is divided against himself, how shall his kingdom stand? because you say that I cast out devils by Beelzebub. Now, if I cast out devils by Beelzebub, by whom do your children cast them out? Therefore they shall be your judges. But if I cast out devils by the finger of God, then the kingdom of God has come upon you. When the strong man, fully armed, guards his courtyard, his property is undisturbed. But if a stronger than he attacks and overcomes him, he will take away all his weapons that he relied upon, and will divide his spoils. He who is not with Me is against Me; and he who does not gather with Me scatters. When the unclean spirit has gone out of a man, he roams through waterless places in search of rest; and finding none, he says, ‘I will return to my house which I left.’ And when he has come to it, he finds the place swept. Then he goes and takes seven other spirits more evil than himself, and they enter in and dwell there; and the last state of that man becomes worse that the first. Now it came to pass as He was saying these things, that a certain woman from the crowd lifted up her voice and said to Him, Blessed is the womb that bore You, and the breasts that nursed You. But He said, Rather, blessed are they who hear the word of God and keep it.

[Offertorium]
!Ps 18:9-12
The precepts of the Lord are right, rejoicing the heart, and His ordinances are sweeter than syrup or honey from the comb; therefore Your servant is careful of them.

[Secreta]
May this offering, we beseech You, O Lord, cleanse us of our sins, and make holy the bodies and minds of Your servants for the celebration of the sacrificial rite.
$Per Dominum

[Communio]
!Ps 83:4-5
The sparrow finds a home, and the swallow a nest in which she puts her young - Your altars, O Lord of Hosts, my King and my God! Happy they who dwell in Your house! continually they praise You.

[Postcommunio]
Be merciful, O Lord, we beseech You, and free from guilt and danger those whom You grant to share in this great sacrament.
$Per Dominum
