[Officium]
Feria Tertia infra Hebdomadam I in Quadragesima

[Rule]
no Gloria
Suffragium=Sanctorum;Vivis;;
Super popul

[Introitus]
!Ps 89:1-2
v. Lord, You have been our refuge through all generations; from everlasting to everlasting You are.
!Ps 89:2
Before the mountains were begotten and the earth and the world were brought forth, from everlasting to everlasting, You are God.
&Gloria
v. Lord, You have been our refuge through all generations; from everlasting to everlasting You are.

[Oratio]
Look upon Your household, O Lord, and grant that our minds, chastened by mortification of the flesh, may, because of their desire for You, shine in Your sight.
$Per Dominum

[Lectio]
Lesson from the Prophecy of Isaias
!Isa 55:6-11
In those days, the Prophet Isaias spoke, saying, “Seek the Lord while He may be found: call upon Him while He is near. Let the wicked forsake his way and the unjust man his thoughts, and let him return to the Lord, and He will have mercy on him, and to our God, for He is bountiful to forgive. For My thoughts are not your thoughts: nor your ways My ways, says the Lord. For as the heavens are exalted above the earth, so are My ways exalted above your ways, and My thoughts above your thoughts. And as the rain and the snow come down from heaven, and return no more thither, but soak the earth and water it, and make it to spring, and give seed to the sower and bread to the eater; so shall My word be, which shall go forth from My mouth; it shall not return to Me void, but it shall do whatsoever I please, and shall prosper in the things for which I sent it, says the Lord almighty.”

[Graduale]
!Ps 140:2
Let my prayer come like incense before You, O Lord.
V. The lifting up of my hands, like the evening sacrifice.

[Evangelium]
Continuation of the Holy Gospel according to Matthew
!Matt 21:10-17
At that time, when Jesus entered Jerusalem, all the city was thrown into commotion, saying, Who is this? But the crowds kept on saying, This is Jesus the prophet from Nazareth of Galilee. And Jesus entered the temple of God, and cast out all those who were selling and buying in the temple, and He overturned the tables of the money-changers and the seats of those who sold the doves. And He said to them, It is written, ‘My house shall be called a house of prayer’; but you have make it a den of thieves. And the blind and the lame came to Him in the temple, and He healed them. But the chief priests and the Scribes, seeing the wonderful deeds that He did, and the children crying out in the temple, and saying, Hosanna to the Son of David, were indignant, and said to Him, Do You hear what these are saying? And Jesus said to them, Yes; have you never read, ‘Out of the mouth of infants and sucklings You have perfected praise’? And leaving them, He went out of the city to Bethany and He stayed there.

[Offertorium]
!Ps 30:15-16
My trust is in You, O Lord; I say, “You are my God.” In Your hands is my destiny.

[Secreta]
Be appeased, we beseech You, O Lord, by the gifts we offer, and safeguard us from all dangers.
$Per Dominum

[Communio]
!Ps 4:2
When I call, answer me, O my just God, You Who relieve me when I am in distress; have pity on me, O Lord, and hear my prayer!

[Postcommunio]
We beseech You, almighty God, that we may obtain that salvation whose pledge we have received in this divine sacrament.
$Per Dominum

[Super populum]
!Prayer over the people
v. Let us pray.
v. Bow your heads to God.
v. May our prayers ascend unto You, O Lord, and banish all wickedness from Your Church.
$Per Dominum
