[Rank]
Feria Sexta Quattuor temporum;;Feria major;;2

[Rank1960]
Feria Sexta Quattuor temporum;;Feria major;;3

[RankNewcal]
Feria VI. infra Hebdomadam I in Quadragesima;;Feria major;;2

[Rule]
no Gloria
Suffragium=Sanctorum;Vivis;;
Super popul

[Introitus]
!Ps 24:17-18
v. Bring me out of distress, O Lord; put an end to my affliction and my suffering, and take away all my sins.
!Ps 24:1-2
To You, O Lord, I lift up my soul. In You, O my God, I trust; let me not be put to shame.
&Gloria
v. Bring me out of distress, O Lord; put an end to my affliction and my suffering, and take away all my sins.

[Oratio]
Be merciful to Your people, O Lord, and as You give them the grace to serve You, make them new by Your loving help.
$Per Dominum

[Lectio]
Lesson from the Prophecy of Ezechiel
!Ezech 18:20-28
Thus says the Lord God: Only the one who sins shall die. The son shall not be charged with the guilt of his father, nor shall the father be charged with the guilt of his son. The virtuous man’s virtue shall be his own, as the wicked man’s wickedness shall be his. But if the wicked man turns away from all the sins he committed, if he keeps all My statutes and does what is right and just, he shall surely live, he shall not die. None of the crimes he committed shall be remembered against him; he shall live because of the virtue he has practiced. Do I indeed derive any pleasure from the death of the wicked? says the Lord God. Do I not rather rejoice when he turns from his evil way that he may live? And if the virtuous man turns from the path of virtue to do evil, the same kind of abominable things that the wicked man does, can he do this and still live? None of his virtuous deeds shall be remembered, because he has broken faith and committed sin; because of this, he shall die. You say, ‘The Lord’s way is not fair!’ Hear now, house of Israel: Is it my way that is unfair, or rather, are not your ways unfair? When a virtuous man turns away from virtue to commit iniquity, and dies, it is because of the iniquity he committed that he must die. But if a wicked man, turning from the wickedness he has committed, does what is right and just, he shall preserve his life; since he has turned away from all the sins which he committed, he shall surely live, he shall not die, says the Lord almighty.

[Graduale]
!Ps 85:2, 6
Save Your servant, O my God, who trusts in You.
V. Hearken, O Lord, to my prayer.
_
!Tractus
!Ps 102:10
O Lord, deal with us not according to our sins, nor requite us according to our crimes.
!Ps 78:8-9
V. O Lord, remember not against us the iniquities of the past; may Your compassion quickly come to us, for we are brought very low. (kneel)
V. Help us, O God, our Saviour, because of the glory of Your Name, O Lord; deliver us and pardon our sins for Your Name’s sake.

[Evangelium]
Continuation of the Holy Gospel according to John
!John 5:1-15
At that time, there was a feast of the Jews, and Jesus went up to Jerusalem. Now there is at Jerusalem, by the Sheepgate, a pool called in Hebrew Bethsaida, having five porticoes. In these were lying a great multitude of the sick, blind, lame, and those with shriveled limbs, waiting for the moving of the water. For an angel of the Lord used to come down at certain times into the pool, and the water was troubled. And the first to go down into the pool after the troubling of the water was cured of whatever infirmity he had. Now a certain man was there who had been thirty-eight years under his infirmity. When Jesus saw him lying there, and knew that he had been in this state a long time, He said to him, Do you want to get well? The sick man answered Him, Sir, I have no one to put me into the pool when the water is stirred; for while I am coming, another steps down before me. Jesus said to him, Rise, take up your pallet and walk. And at once the man was cured. And he took up his pallet and began to walk. Now that day was a Sabbath. The Jews therefore said to him who had been healed, It is the Sabbath; you are not allowed to take up your pallet. He answered them, He who made me well said to me, ‘Take up your pallet and walk.’ They asked him then, Who is the man who said to you, ‘Take up your pallet and walk’? But the man who had been healed did not know who it was, for Jesus had quietly gone away, since there was a crowd in the place. Afterwards Jesus found him in the temple, and said to him, Behold, you are cured. Sin no more, lest something worse befall you. The man went away and told the Jews that it was Jesus Who had healed him.

[Offertorium]
!Ps 102:2, 5
Bless the Lord, O my soul, and forget not all His benefits; and your youth shall be renewed like the eagle’s.

[Secreta]
Accept, we beseech You, O Lord, the offerings which we, Your servants, bring You, and graciously hallow the gifts which are Yours.
$Per Dominum

[Communio]
!Ps 6:11
All my enemies shall be put to shame in utter terror; they shall fall back in sudden shame.

[Postcommunio]
By the working of this sacrament, O Lord, may our sins be erased, and our just desires fulfilled.
$Per Dominum

[Super populum]
!Prayer over the people
v. Let us pray.
v. Bow your heads to God.
v. Graciously hear us, merciful God, and reveal to our minds the light of Your grace.
$Per Dominum
