[Rank]
Sabbato infra Hebdomadam Passionis;;Feria major;;2

[Rule]
no Gloria
Suffragium=Ecclesiae,Papa;;
Prefatio=Quad5
Super popul

[Introitus]
!Ps 30:10, 16, 18
v. Have pity on me, O Lord, for I am in distress; rescue me from the clutches of my enemies and my persecutors. O Lord, let me not be put to shame, for I call upon You.
!Ps 30:2
In You, O Lord, I take refuge; let me never be put to shame. In Your justice rescue me.
v. Have pity on me, O Lord, for I am in distress; rescue me from the clutches of my enemies and my persecutors. O Lord, let me not be put to shame, for I call upon You.

[Oratio]
O Lord, may the people dedicated to You desire to serve You more and more, that, taught by these sacred rites, they may be enriched by more precious gifts as they grow in favor with Your majesty.
$Per Dominum

[Lectio]
Lesson from the Prophecy of Jeremias
!Jer 18:18-23
In those days, the wicked Jews said to one another, Come, let us contrive a plot against the Just. It will not mean the loss of instruction from the priests, nor of counsel from the wise, nor of messages from the prophets. And so, let us destroy him with the tongue, let us pay no heed to all his words. Heed me, O Lord, and listen to what my adversaries say. Must good be repaid with evil that they should dig a pit to take my life? Remember that I stood before You to speak in their behalf, to turn away Your wrath from them. So now, deliver their children to famine, do away with them by the sword. Let their wives be made childless and widows; let their men die of pestilence, their young men be slain by the sword in battle. May cries be heard from their homes, when suddenly You send plunderers against them. For they have dug a pit to capture me, they have hid snares for my feet; but You, O Lord, know all their plans to slay me. Forgive not their crime, blot not out their sin in Your sight! Let them go down before you, proceed against them in the time of Your anger, O Lord, our God.

[Graduale]
!Ps 34:20, 22
My enemies spoke peaceably to me: and in anger they afflicted me.
V. You, O Lord, have seen; be not silent; be not far from me!

[Evangelium]
Continuation of the Holy Gospel according to John
!John 12:10-36
At that time, the chief priests planned to put Lazarus to death also. For on his account many of the Jews began to leave them and to believe in Jesus. Now the next day, the great crowd which had come to the feast, when they heard that Jesus was coming to Jerusalem, took the branches of palms and went forth to meet Him. And they cried out, Hosanna! Blessed is He Who comes in the name of the Lord, the King of Israel! And Jesus found a young ass, and sat upon it, as it is written, Fear not, daughter of Sion; behold, your King comes, sitting upon the colt of an ass. These things His disciples did not at first understand. But when Jesus was glorified, then they remembered that these things were written about Him, and that they had done these things to Him. The crowd therefore, which was with Him when He called Lazarus from the tomb and raised him from the dead, bore witness to Him. And the reason why the crowd also went to meet Him was that they heard that He had worked this sign. The Pharisees therefore said among themselves, Do you see that we avail nothing? Behold, the entire world has gone after Him! Now there were certain Gentiles among those who had gone up to worship on the feast. These therefore approached Philip, who was from Bethsaida of Galilee, and asked him, saying, Sir, we wish to see Jesus. Philip came and told Andrew; again, Andrew and Philip spoke to Jesus. But Jesus answered them, The hour has come for the Son of Man to be glorified. Amen, amen, I say to you, unless the grain of wheat falls into the ground and dies, it remains alone. But if it dies, it brings forth much fruit. He who loves his life, loses it; and he who hates his life in this world keeps it unto life everlasting. If anyone serves Me, let him follow Me; and where I am there also shall My servant be. If anyone serves Me, My Father will honor him. Now my soul is troubled. And what shall I say? Father, save Me from this hour! No, this is why I came to this hour. Father, glorify Your name! There came therefore a voice from heaven, I have both glorified it, and I will glorify it again. Then the crowd which was standing round and had heard, said that it had thundered. Others said, An angel has spoken to Him. Jesus answered and said, Not for Me did this voice come, but for you. Now is the judgment of the world; now will the prince of the world be cast out. And I, if I be lifted up from the earth, will draw all things to Myself. Now He said this signifying by what death He was to die. The crowd answered Him, We have heard from the Law that the Christ abides forever. And how can You say, ‘The Son of Man must be lifted up’? Who is this Son of Man? Jesus therefore said to them, Yet a little while the light is among you. Walk while you have the light, that darkness may not overtake you. He who walks in the darkness does not know where he goes. While you have the light, believe in the light, that you may become sons of light. These things Jesus spoke, and He went away and hid Himself from them.

[Offertorium]
!Ps 118:12, 121, 42
Blessed are You, O Lord; teach me Your statutes. Let not the proud oppress me; so shall I have an answer for those who reproach me.

[Secreta]
Be propitiated, we beg You, O Lord, and pardon all our offenses, whom You grant to be sharers in so great a mystery.
$Per Dominum

[Communio]
!Ps 26:12
Give me not up, O Lord, to the wishes of my foes; for false witnesses have risen up against me, and such as breathe out violence.

[Postcommunio]
O Lord, our God, we beseech You, that we who have been filled with the riches of Your divine gift may always find life when we partake of it.
$Per Dominum

[Super populum]
!Prayer over the people
v. Let us pray.
v. Bow your heads to God.
v. Let Your right hand, we beseech You, O Lord, guard Your people who call upon You; purify them and graciously teach them; that, by Your aid in this life, may they advance toward the good things to come.
$Per Dominum
