[Rank]
S. Gabrielis Archangeli;;Duplex majus;;4;;ex Sancti/05-08

[Rule]
ex Sancti/05-08
9 lectiones
Psalmi Dominica
Antiphonas horas
Psalm5 Vespera=137
Psalm5 Vespera3=116

[Ant Vespera]
Zacharie étant entré * dans le temple du Seigneur, l’Ange Gabriel lui apparut, se tenant debout à droite de l’autel des parfums (Alléluia).
L’Ange lui dit alors : * ne crains point, Zacharie, parce que ta prière a été exhaussée (Alléluia).
Je suis l’Ange Gabriel, * qui me tiens devant Dieu et j’ai été envoyé pour te parler (Alléluia).
L’Ange Gabriel * parla à Marie en disant : voici que vous concevrez dans votre sein et vous enfanterez un fils et vous l’appellerez du nom de Jésus (Alléluia).
Et Marie dit * à l’Ange : comment cela se fera-t-il puisque je ne connais point d’homme ? Et l’Ange Gabriel lui répondit : l’Esprit-Saint surviendra en vous et la puissance du Très-Haut vous couvrira de Son ombre (Alléluia).

[Hymnus Vespera]
v. O Christ, la gloire des saints Anges,
Créateur et Rédempteur du genre humain,
accordez-nous de monter un jour
à l’heureuse demeure des habitants du ciel.
_
Que Gabriel, l’Ange de la force,
repousse nos anciens ennemis,
et qu’il visite les temples aimés du ciel qui se sont élevés sur la terre
après la mission triomphante qu’il vint y remplir.
_
Que la Vierge, reine de paix et mère de la lumière,
que le chœur sacré des Anges,
et la cour resplendissante des cieux
nous couvrent toujours de leur protection.
_
Qu’elle nous accorde Ses faveurs,
la Divinité bienheureuse :
Père, Fils et Saint-Esprit,
Elle dont le monde entier proclame la gloire. 
Amen.

[Capitulum Vespera]
!Dan 9:21-22
v. Voilà que Gabriel, l’homme que j’avais vu dans la vision, au commencement, volant vite, me toucha au temps du sacrifice du soir. Et il m’instruisit et me parla et dit : Daniel, maintenant je suis sorti afin de t’instruire et que tu comprennes.
$Deo gratias

[Versum 1]
V. L’Ange s’arrêta devant l’autel du temple. (Alléluia.)
R. Ayant un encensoir d’or à la main. (Alléluia.)

[Ant 1]
L’Ange Gabriel * apparut à Daniel et lui dit : dès le commencement de tes prières est sortie une parole et moi je suis venu pour te la faire connaître : toi donc, sois attentif à cette parole et comprends la vision.

[Oratio]
O Dieu, qui avez choisi l’Archange Gabriel entre tous les Anges, pour annoncer le mystère de Votre Incarnation, accordez-nous, dans Votre bonté, qu’après avoir célébré sa fête sur la terre, nous goûtions dans le ciel les effets de sa protection.
$Qui vivis

[Invit]
The Lord, he is the King of the Archangels, * O come, let us worship him. Alleluia.

[Ant Matutinum]
The Angel Gabriel said unto Daniel: Understand, O son of man; for at the time of the end shall the vision be fulfilled. (Alleluia.);;8
Behold the man Gabriel, whom I had seen in the vision (at the beginning,) being caused to fly swiftly, touched me about the time of the evening oblation; and he informed me.;;10
When Gabriel was about speaking unto me, I fell upon my face toward the ground; but he touched me, and set me upright;;14
V. An Angel stood at the Altar of the Temple. (Alleluia.)
R. Having a golden censer in his hand. (Alleluia.)
The Angel Gabriel appeared unto Zacharias, and said unto him: Thy wife Elizabeth shall bear thee a son, and thou shalt call his name John. (Alleluia.);;18
And Zacharias said unto the Angel: Whereby shall know this? for I am an old man, and my wife well stricken in years;;23
And the Angel, answering, said unto him: I am Gabriel, that stand in the presence of God, and am sent to speak unto thee, and to show thee these glad tidings;;33
V. The smoke of the incense ascended up before the Lord (Alleluia.)
R. Out of the Angel's hand. (Alleluia.)
The Angel Gabriel was sent to a virgin espoused to a man whose name was Joseph, and the virgin's name was Mary. (Alleluia);;95
The Angel Gabriel said unto Mary: Behold, thy cousin Elizabeth, she hath also conceived a son in her old age;;96
O Virgin Mary, receive the word of the Lord which is sent thee by His Angel Gabriel;;102
V. Before the Angels will I sing praise unto Thee, O my God. (Alleluia.)
R. I will worship toward Thy holy Temple, and praise Thy Name. (Alleluia.)

[Lectio1]
Lesson from the book of Daniel
!Dan 9:20-23
20 Now while I was yet speaking, and praying, and confessing my sins, and the~
sins of my people of Israel, and presenting my supplications in the sight of my~
God, for the holy mountain of my God:
21 As I was yet speaking in prayer, behold the man Gabriel, whom I had seen in~
the vision at the beginning, flying swiftly touched me at the time of the~
evening sacrifice.
22 And he instructed me, and spoke to me, and said: O Daniel, I am now come~
forth to teach thee, and that thou mightest understand.
23 From the beginning of thy prayers the word came forth: and I am come to show~
it to thee, because thou art a man of desires: therefore do thou mark the word,~
and understand the vision.

[Responsory1]
R. Whiles Daniel was praying, and confessing his sins, and the sins of his~
people
* Behold, the Archangel Gabriel, being caused to fly swiftly, touched him about~
the time of the evening oblation. (Alleluia.)
V. Whiles he was presenting his supplication before his God
R. Behold, the Archangel Gabriel, being caused to fly swiftly, touched him about~
the time of the evening oblation. (Alleluia.)

[Lectio2]
!Dan 9:24-25
24 Seventy weeks are shortened upon thy people, and upon thy holy city, that~
transgression may be finished, and sin may have an end, and iniquity may be~
abolished; and everlasting justice may be brought; and vision and prophecy may~
be fulfilled; and the saint of saints may be anointed.
25 Know thou therefore, and take notice: that from the going forth of the word,~
to build up Jerusalem again, unto Christ the prince, there shall be seven weeks,~
and sixty-two weeks: and the street shall be built again, and the walls in~
straitness of times.

[Responsory2]
R. And Gabriel talked with Daniel, and said: At the beginning of thy~
supplications the commandment came forth
* And I am come to show thee, for thou art greatly beloved. (Alleluia.)
V. Therefore consider the matter and understand the vision.
R. And I am come to show thee, for thou art greatly beloved. (Alleluia.)

[Lectio3]
!Dan 9:26-27
26 And after sixty-two weeks Christ shall be slain: and the people that shall~
deny him shall not be his. And a people with their leader that shall come, shall~
destroy the city and the sanctuary: and the end thereof shall be waste, and~
after the end of the war the appointed desolation.
27 And he shall confirm the covenant with many, in one week: and in the half of~
the week the victim and the sacrifice shall fall: and there shall be in the~
temple the abomination of desolation: and the desolation shall continue even to~
the consummation, and to the end.

[Responsory3]
R. Behold, the man Gabriel, whom I had seen in the vision at the beginning,~
being caused to fly swiftly, touched me about the time of the evening oblation;~
and he informed me, and talked with me, and said:
* O Daniel, I am now come forth to give thee skill and understanding.~
~(Alleluia.)
V. O Gabriel, make me to understand the vision. So he came near where I stood.~
And he said unto me
R. O Daniel, I am now come forth to give thee skill and understanding.~
~(Alleluia.)
&Gloria
R. O Daniel, I am now come forth to give thee skill and understanding.~
~(Alleluia.)

[Lectio4]
A Sermon by St. Venerable Bede, the Priest (at Jarrow.)
!Exposition on Luke 1:11-20
The Angel appeared to Zacharias in the sanctuary of the temple at the right side of the altar of incense. Which same was fitting, thus: he appeared in the sanctuary because he came to proclaim sacrifice; and at the right side thereof, to índicate how joyous was the honour about to be bestowed on mankind by the heavenly gift. The right side is the side of honour, and therefore words índicating a position at the right hand are often used to signify an eternal good, and by the same token, to be at the left side doth sometimes signify only present good. As for example where the Book of Proverbs singeth thus in praise of wisdom: Length of days in in her right hand, and in her left hand riches and honour. First of all the Angel comforteth the trembling Zacharias. Fear not, saith he. For just as it is natural for human frailty to fear spiritual manifestations, so it is natural for Angels to comfort with good words the mortals that be in this wise fearful. Contrariwise, when the devil perceiveth that his audacious manifestations do frighten, he proceedeth to frighten as much as he can, and that with an increasing fearsomeness. There is no better way to overcome his workings than by a courageous faith.

[Responsory4]
R. It came to pass that while Zacharias executed the Priest's office before God,~
in the order of his course
* There appeared unto him the Angel Gabriel, standing on the right side of the~
Altar of incense. (Alleluia.)
V. When he went into the temple of the Lord to burn incense, according to the~
custom of the Priest's office.
R. There appeared unto him the Angel Gabriel, standing on the right side of the~
Altar of incense. (Alleluia.)

[Lectio5]
Next, the Angel saith that the prayer of Zacharias was heard, and then straightway promiseth that the wife of Zacharias should bear a child. We are not to understand that he had been praying for the birth of a son whilst he was offering the sacrifice according to the liturgy of that time, for we are told that he had given up hope of a son, and no one prayeth for that which he hath no hope of obtaining. Yea, so hopeless was he of ever having children of his own, because Elizabeth was barren, and they were both now well stricken in years, that he did not even believe the Angel's promise. Therefore the words of the Angel: Thy prayer is heard: refer to the redemption of the people, for which Zacharias had prayed in the pleading of the sacrifice. And the words: Thy wife shall bear a son: do shew the manner of that redemption, for he addeth that the son of Zacharias shall go before the Redeemer as a herald, to make ready his way amongst the people. Thus, in this saying that the prayer of supplication offered by Zacharias was heard of God, the Angel sheweth in what manner the people can be brought to salvation and perfection; namely, by repentance at the preaching of John, whereby they are to be led to faith in Christ.

[Responsory5]
R. The Angel Gabriel came down unto Zacharias, and said unto him:
* Fear not; for thy prayer is heard; and thy wife Elizabeth shall bear thee a~
son, and thou shalt call his name John. (Alleluia.)
V. And when Zacharias saw him, he was troubled, and fear fell upon him; but the~
Angel said unto him
R. Fear not; for thy prayer is heard; and thy wife Elizabeth shall bear thee a~
son, and thou shalt call his name John. (Alleluia.)

[Lectio6]
But Zacharias hesitateth because of the sublime things which have been promised. Wherefore he asketh for a sign, that he may believe, albeit the coming of the Angel and his words of promise ought to have been a sufficient sign. Hence he was stricken dumb as a just penalty for his slowness of belief: to be dumb was both a sign to stir him up to the faith which he sought, and the penance which he deserved for his unbelief. We may thus understand that if a man of earth had promised such things, it would be lawful to seek for a sign, but that when an Angel is sent from heaven to give God's promise, there should have been no occasion for doubt. And yet the Angel giveth the desired sign, so that he who spake from disbelief may learn from silence to believe. Note that the Angel saith: I am Gabriel, that stand in the presence of God, and am sent to speak unto thee these glad tidings. Doubtless when Angels come to us they fulfill this active and outward ministry in such a way that they yet do always remain in God's presence by contemplation. Wherefore, they stand in his presence even though they be sent from him on a mission. An Angel is a created spirit, and therefore hath many limitations. But God hath no limitations, and is everywhere. Thus when he sendeth his Angels from his presence, they yet do stand therein, for whithersoever they go on a mission, they go in him. - This Feast of the Archangel Gabriel was extended to the universal Church by Pope Benedict XV.

[Responsory6]
R. I am Gabriel, that stand in the presence of God; and am sent to speak unto~
thee, and to show thee these glad tidings.
* Behold, thou shalt be dumb, and not able to speak, until the day that these~
things shall be performed. (Alleluia.)
V. Because thou believest not my words, which shall be fulfilled in their~
season.
R. Behold, thou shalt be dumb, and not able to speak, until the day that these~
things shall be performed. (Alleluia.)
&Gloria
R. Behold, thou shalt be dumb, and not able to speak, until the day that these~
things shall be performed. (Alleluia.)

[Lectio7]
From the Holy Gospel according to Luke
!Luke 1:26-38
At that time: The Angel Gabriel was sent from God unto a city of Galilee named~
Nazareth, to a virgin espoused to a man whose name was Joseph, of the house of~
David: and the Virgin's name was Mary. And so on.
_
A Homily by St. Bernard the Abbot
!Homily 1 on Missus est, no. 2
Consider that this Angel was not one of lesser rank, even though such are, on one account or another, often sent on embassies to this earth. That he was an Angel of greater rank is indicated by his name which signifieth: Strength of God: and by the fact that he was sent, not by some Angel perhaps more excellent than he (as is usual), but from God himself. Therefore for this reason it is said: From God. Or, it might be for another reason, namely, lest it should be thought that God had discourteously revealed his counsel to any of the blessed spirits, except only the Archangel Gabriel, before he did so to the Virgin. For Gabriel alone was found so eminent among his compeers as to be held worthy both of such a name and message.

[Responsory7]
R. The Angel Gabriel was sent to Mary, the virgin espoused to Joseph, and the~
Virgin was afraid of the light.
* Fear not, Mary, for thou hast found grace with the Lord. Behold, thou shalt~
conceive and bring forth a Son, and He shall be called the Son of the Highest.~
~(Alleluia.)
V. And when she heard it, she was troubled at his saying, and cast in her mind~
what manner of salutation this should be. And the Angel said unto her:
R. Fear not, Mary, for thou hast found grace with the Lord. Behold, thou shalt~
conceive, and bring forth a Son, and He shall be called the Son of the Highest.~
~(Alleluia.)

[Lectio8]
Neither do his name and his message disagree. For whom did it more behove to announce Christ, who is the Power of God, than him who is honoured by a like name? For what else is power than strength? Neither doth it appear to be unbecoming or unseemly that the Lord and his messenger should be known by a like title. Christ is called the power or strength of God in a very different sense from that in which this appellation is given to the Angel. In the Angel it is but a name. In the case of Christ, it is also an eternal attribute.

[Lectio9]
Christ is called, and truly is, the power of God. When the strong man armed was wont to keep his house in peace, a stronger came upon him, and overcame him by the strength of his arm, and forcibly deprived him of all his spoils. But the Angel is called the strength of God, either because this title was his right, as herald of the power of God; or because it was his duty to comfort the Virgin (who was naturally timid, simple, and bashful) lest she should be affrighted at the novelty of the miracle. This he certainly did by saying: Fear not, Mary, for thou hast found favour with God. Thus was Gabriel fitly chosen for this work. Yea, because he was entrusted with so great a mission, rightly was so great a name assigned to him.

[Responsory8]
R. Rejoice, O Mary, by whose mighty hand the Church hath victory o'er her foes~
achieved
* Since thou to Gabriel's word of quickening power in lowliness hast listened~
and believed thou, still a virgin, in thy blessed womb hast God Incarnate of thy~
flesh conceived, and, still of heaven, of that virginity remainest after~
childbirth unbereaved. (Alleluia.)
V. Blessed art thou among women, and blessed is the fruit of thy womb.
R. Since thou to Gabriel's word of quickening power in lowliness hast listened~
and believed thou, still a virgin, in thy blessed womb hast God Incarnate of thy~
flesh conceived, and, still of heaven, of that virginity remainest after~
childbirth unbereaved. (Alleluia.)
&Gloria
R. Since thou to Gabriel's word of quickening power in lowliness hast listened~
and believed thou, still a virgin, in thy blessed womb hast God Incarnate of thy~
flesh conceived, and, still of heaven, of that virginity remainest after~
childbirth unbereaved. (Alleluia.)

[Ant Laudes]
Zacharie étant entré * dans le temple du Seigneur, l’Ange Gabriel lui apparut, se tenant debout à droite de l’autel des parfums (Alléluia).
L’Ange lui dit alors : * ne crains point, Zacharie, parce que ta prière a été exhaussée (Alléluia).
Je suis l’Ange Gabriel, * qui me tiens devant Dieu et j’ai été envoyé pour te parler (Alléluia).
L’Ange Gabriel * parla à Marie en disant : voici que vous concevrez dans votre sein et vous enfanterez un fils et vous l’appellerez du nom de Jésus (Alléluia).
Et Marie dit * à l’Ange : comment cela se fera-t-il puisque je ne connais point d’homme ? Et l’Ange Gabriel lui répondit : l’Esprit-Saint surviendra en vous et la puissance du Très-Haut vous couvrira de Son ombre (Alléluia).

[Hymnus Laudes]
v. O Christ, pardonnez à vos serviteurs,
pour lesquels Marie, la divine patronne,
implore la clémence du Père
auprès du tribunal de votre miséricorde.
_
Venez à notre aide, ô Archange
dont le nom rappelle la force de Dieu,
obtenez des forces nouvelles à ceux qui languissent,
procurez du soulagement aux affligés.
_
Et vous, bienheureux esprits,
divisés en neuf chœurs glorieux,
éloignez de nous les maux présents,
et les maux à venir.
_
Faites disparaître des pays occupés par les fidèles,
ceux qui n’ont pas la vraie foi,
en sorte qu’il n’y ait plus qu’un seul troupeau
gouverné par un seul Pasteur.
_
Gloire à Dieu le Père
qui nous a racheté par Son Fils,
nous a oint du Saint-Esprit,
et nous garde par les Anges.
Amen.

[Versum 2]
V. L’Ange s’arrêta devant l’autel du temple. (Alléluia.)
R. Ayant un encensoir d’or à la main. (Alléluia.)

[Ant 2]
L’Ange Gabriel * descendit vers Zacharie et lui dit : Élisabeth, ta femme, enfantera un fils et tu lui donneras le nom de Jean et à sa naissance, beaucoup se réjouiront. Il marchera devant la face du Seigneur pour lui préparer les voies. (Alleluia.)

[Oratio]
O Dieu, qui avez choisi l’Archange Gabriel entre tous les Anges, pour annoncer le mystère de Votre Incarnation, accordez-nous, dans Votre bonté, qu’après avoir célébré sa fête sur la terre, nous goûtions dans le ciel les effets de sa protection.
$Qui vivis

[Lectio Prima]
!Dan 9:25
v. Know thou therefore, and take notice: that from the going forth of the word,~
to build up Jerusalem again, unto Christ the prince, there shall be seven weeks,~
and sixty-two weeks: and the street shall be built again, and the walls in~
straitness of times.

[Capitulum Sexta]
!Dan 9:23-24
v. And I have come to show thee, for thou art greatly beloved: Seventy weeks are~
determined, to finish the trangression, and to make an end of sin, and to seal~
up the vision and prophecy, and to anoint the Most Holy.
$Deo gratias

[Versum 3]
V. En présence des Anges, je vous chanterai des hymnes, mon Dieu. (Alleluia.)
R. J’adorerai vers Votre saint temple, et je glorifierai Votre Nom. (Alleluia.)

[Ant 3]
L’Archange Gabriel * dit à Marie : rien n’est impossible à Dieu. Et Marie reprit : voici la servante du Seigneur, qu’il me soit fait selon votre parole. Et l’Ange s’éloigna d’elle. (Alleluia.)
