[Rank]
Apparitione S Michaelis Archangeli;;Duplex majus;;4;;

[Rule]
proprium
9 lectiones
Psalmi Dominica
Antiphonas horas
Una Antiphona
Psalm5 Vespera=116
Psalm5 Vespera3=137
Contract8
Quorum Festum

[Ant Vespera]
An Angel stood at the Altar * of the Temple, having a golden censer in his hand. (Alleluia.)
While as the Archangel Michael fought against the dragon, * I heard voices saying Salvation unto our God. (Alleluia.)
Michael Mine Archangel, * I have appointed thee for a prince over the ingathering of souls. (Alleluia.)
O ye Angels of the Lord, bless ye the Lord always. (Alleluia.)
O ye Angels and Archangels, * O ye Thrones and Dominions, O ye Principalities and Powers, O ye mighty Ones of heaven, praise ye the Lord from the heavens (Alleluia.)

[Capitulum Vespera]
!Rev 1:1-2
v. God gave unto Jesus Christ to show unto His servants the things which must shortly come to pass and He sent and signified it by His Angel unto His servant John who bare witness of the Word of God and of the testimony of Jesus Christ, of all the things which he saw.
$Deo gratias

[Hymnus Vespera]
O Jesu Life, spring of the soul!
The Father's power and glory bright!
thee with the Angels we extol;
From thee they draw their life and light.
_
Thy thousand thousand hosts are spread
Embattled o'er the azure sky;
But Michael bears thy standard dread,
And lifts the mighty Cross on high.
_
He in that Sign the rebel power.
Did with their Dragon Prince expel;
And hurled them from the heaven's high towers,
Down like a thunderbolt to hell.
_
Grant us, with Michael, still, O Lord,
Against the prince of pride to fight;
So may a crown be our reward,
Before the Lamb's pure throne of light.
_
To God the Father, with the Son
And Holy Paraclete, with thee,
As evermore hath been before,
Be glory through eternity.
Amen.

[Versum 1]
V. An Angel stood at the Altar of the Temple. (Alleluia.)
R. Having a golden censer in his hand. (Alleluia.)

[Ant 1]
While as John was gazing * upon the holy mystery, the Archangel Michael sounded his trumpet Forgive us, O Lord our God, Which openest the book, and loosest the seals thereof. (Alleluia.)

[Oratio]
O God, Who hast ordained and constituted the services of angels and men in a wonderful order, mercifully grant that as thy holy angels alway do thee service in heaven, so, by thy appointment, they may succour and defend us on earth.
$Per Dominum

[Invit]
Au Seigneur, Roi des Archanges, * Venez, offrons l’adoration. (Alleluia.)

[Hymnus Matutinum]
@Sancti/05-08:Hymnus Vespera

[Ant Matutinum]
La mer fut agitée * et la terre trembla, dès que l’Archange Michel descendit du ciel. (Alleluia.);;8
;;10
;;14
V. L’Ange se tint debout près de l’autel du temple.(Alleluia.)
R. Ayant un encensoir d’or à la main. (Alleluia.)
Archange Michel, * venez au secours du peuple de Dieu. (Alleluia.);;18
;;23
;;33
V. Elle monta, la fumée des parfums, en présence du Seigneur. (Alleluia.)
R. De la main de l’Ange. (Alleluia.)
C’est un Ange, l’Archange Michel, * un messager de Dieu pour les âmes justes, Alleluia, Alleluia;;95
;;96
;;102
V. En présence des Anges, je vous chanterai, ô mon Die. (Alleluia.)
R. Je me prosternerai dans votre saint temple et je louerai votre nom. (Alleluia.)

[Lectio1]
Du Prophète Daniel.
!Dan 7:9-11
9 Je regardais, jusqu'à ce que des trônes furent placés, et l'Ancien des jours s'assit. Son vêtement était blanc comme la neige, et les cheveux de Sa tête comme de la laine pure ; Son trône était comme des flammes ardentes, et les roues du trône comme un feu brûlant.
10 Un fleuve de feu, rapide, sortait de devant Sa Face ; mille milliers Le servaient, et dix mille millions l'assistaient. Le jugement se tint, et les livres furent ouverts.
11 Je regardais, à cause du bruit des grandes paroles que cette corne prononçait ; et je vis que la bête avait été tuée, que son corps était détruit et qu'il avait été livré pour être brûlé au feu;

[Responsory1]
R. Il se fit un silence dans le Ciel, tandis que le dragon engageait le combat contre l’Archange Michel. 
* On entendit la voix de milliers de milliers d’anges qui disaient : Salut, honneur et puissance au Dieu Tout-Puissant. (Alleluia.)
V. Mille milliers le servaient, et des millions se tenaient debout devant lui.
R. On entendit la voix de milliers de milliers d’anges qui disaient : Salut, honneur et puissance au Dieu Tout-Puissant. (Alleluia.)

[Lectio2]
!Dan 10:4-8
4 Le vingt-quatrième jour du premier mois, j'étais près du grand fleuve qui est le Tigre.
5 Et je levai les yeux et je vis : et voici qu'il y avait un homme vêtu de lin, et dont les reins étaient ceints d'or très pur ;
6 son corps était comme le chrysolithe, son visage brillait comme l'éclair, et ses yeux étaient comme une lampe ardente ; ses bras, et tout le reste du corps jusqu'aux pieds, étaient comme un airain étincelant, et le bruit de ses paroles était comme le bruit d'une multitude.
7 Moi, Daniel, je vis seul la vision ; les hommes qui étaient avec moi ne la virent pas, mais une terreur extrême se précipita sur eux, et ils s'enfuirent dans les lieux cachés.
8 Et moi, resté seul, je vis cette grande vision ; aucune force ne resta en moi, mon visage fut tout changé, je tombai en faiblesse et je perdis toute vigueur.

[Responsory2]
R. L ’Ange se tint debout près de l’autel du temple, ayant un encensoir d’or en sa main, et il lui fut donné des parfums abondants ;
* Et la fumée des parfums monta de la main de l’Ange, devant la face du Seigneur. (Alleluia.)
V. En présence des Anges, je me prosternerai en votre saint temple et je louerai votre nom, Seigneur.
R. Et la fumée des parfums monta de la main de l’Ange, devant la face du Seigneur. (Alleluia.)

[Lectio3]
!Dan 10:9-14
9 J'entendis le bruit de ses paroles, et, l'entendant, je gisais sur ma face, consterné, et mon visage était collé à terre.
10 Et voici qu'une main me toucha, et me dressa sur mes genoux et sur mes mains.
11 Et il me dit : Daniel, homme de désirs, comprends les paroles que je vais te dire, et tiens-toi debout ; car je suis maintenant envoyé vers toi. Lorsqu'il m'eut dit cela, je me tins debout en tremblant.
12 Et il me dit : Ne crains point, Daniel, car dès le premier jour où tu as appliqué ton cœur à comprendre et à t'affliger en présence de ton Dieu, tes paroles ont été exaucées, et je suis venu à cause de tes paroles.
13 Le prince du royaume des Perses m'a résisté vingt et un jours ; mais voici que Michel, un des premiers princes, est venu à mon secours; et je suis demeuré là, près du roi des Perses.
14 Je suis venu pour t'apprendre ce qui doit arriver à ton peuple aux derniers jours, car la vision concerne encore ces temps-là.

[Responsory3]
R. En présence des Anges je vous chanterai ; je me prosternerai dans votre saint temple,
* Et je louerai votre nom, Seigneur. (Alleluia.)
V. Pour votre miséricorde et votre fidélité, car vous avez magnifié votre saint nom par-dessus tout.
R. Et je louerai votre nom, Seigneur. (Alleluia.)
&Gloria
R. Et je louerai votre nom, Seigneur. (Alleluia.)

[Lectio4]
Le Bienheureux Archange Michel est souvent apparu aux hommes, ainsi que l’établissent l’autorité des livres sacrés et l’antique tradition des Saints. Aussi la mémoire de ces apparitions est-elle célébrée en plusieurs pays. Autrefois c’était la synagogue des juifs, maintenant c’est l’Église de Dieu qui le célèbre comme son gardien et son protecteur. Sous le pontificat de Gélase Ier, en Apulie, sur le sommet du mont Gargan, au pied duquel habitent les Sipontins, eut lieu une célèbre apparition de l’Archange Michel.

[Responsory4]
R. This is Michael, who to battle leads the armies of the skies
* Whosoever on him calleth blessed within his wardship lies. His a prayer whose voice availing aids from earth toward heaven to rise. (Alleluia.)
V. The Archangel Michael is the Vice-Roy of Paradise, and the Angels that are the dwellers therein, do hold him in worship.
R. Whosoever on him calleth blessed within his wardship lies. His a prayer whose voice availing aids from earth toward heaven to rise. (Alleluia.)

[Lectio5]
And it came to pass on this wise. A certain man had a bull grazing with the flock upon Mount Gargano, and it strayed. And when they had sought it for a long while they found it jammed in the mouth of a cavern. Then one that stood there shot an arrow at it to slay it, but the arrow turned round and came back against him that had shot it. They therefore that saw it, and all those that heard it, were sore afraid because of that which had come to pass, so that no man dared any more to draw near to the cavern. But when they had sought counsel of the Bishop of Siponto, he answered, that it behoved to seek the interpretation from God, and proclaimed three days of fasting and prayer.

[Responsory5]
R. Where Angels lead the spirits of the blessed dead the glad procession moves with Michael at its head
* To lead them into the garden of Eden. (Alleluia.)
V. Lord, send thy Holy Spirit from heaven the Spirit of wisdom and understanding.
R. To lead them into the garden of Eden. (Alleluia.)

[Lectio6]
After three days the Archangel Michael gave warning to the Bishop that that place was under his protection, and that he had thus pointed out by a sign that he wished that worship should be offered to God there, with remembrance of himself and of the Angels. Then the Bishop and the citizens made haste and came to the cavern and when they found that the form thereof was somewhat after the fashion of a Church, they began to perform the public worship of God therein which sanctuary hath been glorified with many miracles. It was not long after these things that Pope~
Boniface IV. hallowed the Church of St. Michael on Hadrian's Mole at Rome, on the 29th day of September, on the which day the Church also holdeth in remembrance All Angels. But this present day is hallowed in remembrance of the manifestation of the Archangel Michael.

[Responsory6]
R. At that time shall Michael stand up, which standeth for your children.
* And there shall be a time, such as never was since there was a nation even to that same time. (Alleluia)
V. At that time thy people shall be delivered, every one that shall be found written in the Book of Life.
R. And there shall be a time, such as never was since there was a nation even to that same time. (Alleluia)
&Gloria
R. And there shall be a time, such as never was since there was a nation even to that same time. (Alleluia)

[Lectio94]
That the blessed Archangel Michael hath oftentimes been seen of men is attested on the authority of the Holy Bible, and also by the ancient traditions of the Saints. For this reason such visions are held in remembrance in many places. As of old time did the Synagogue of the Jews, so now doth the Church of God venerate Michael as her watcher and defender. But during the Popedom of Gelasius I, the summit of Mount Gargano in Apulia, at whose foot lieth the town of Siponto, was the scene of an extraordinary appearance of this same Archangel Michael. It was not long after these things that Pope Boniface IV hallowed the Church of St. Michael on Hadrian's Mole at Rome, on the 29th day of September, on the which day the Church also holdeth in remembrance All Angels. But this present day is hallowed in remembrance of the manifestation of the Archangel Michael.
&teDeum

[Lectio7]
From the Holy Gospel according to Matthew
!Matt 18:1-10
At that time Came the disciples unto Jesus, saying Who is the greatest in the kingdom of heaven? And so on. 
_
Homily by St. Hilary, Bishop of Poitiers.
!Com. on Matth. xviii.
Unless ye become as little children," saith the Lord, "ye shall not enter into~
the kingdom of heaven," that is, unless by the uprooting of bodily and mental~
depravity, we bring our souls to the innocency of childhood. But He giveth the~
name of children to all such as believe by the hearing of faith. Children follow~
their father, love their mother, know not how to wish evil to their neighbours,~
are not careful for earthly riches they insult not, they hate not, they lie~
not, they believe what they are told, and take for truth what they hear. Us then~
it behoveth to return to the simpleness of little children, for when we are well~
rooted therein, we shall so far bear about in ourselves an image of the sublime~
simpleness of the Lord Jesus.

[Responsory7]
R. Be not ye afraid before the Gentiles but in your hearts, worship ye the Lord, and fear Him
* For His Angel is with you. (Alleluia.)
V. An Angel stood at the Altar of the Temple, having a golden censer in his hand.
R. For His Angel is with you. (Alleluia.)

[Lectio8]
Woe unto the world because of offences. The lowliness of the Passion is an~
offence unto the world. Such is the state of stupidity to which man's ignorance~
hath reduced itself, that it turneth away from the Lord of Eternal Glory,~
because of the unsightliness of the Cross. And what is so certain to bring woe~
unto the world as to turn away from Christ. And therefore He saith: "It must~
needs be that offences come," because His fulfilling the lowliness of the~
Passion was the predestined mean whereby He was to give us eternal life.

[Responsory8]
R. The Archangel Michael came to help God's people.
* He arose to succour the spirits of the righteous. (Alleluia.)
V. An Angel stood at the Altar of the Temple, having a golden censer in his hand.
R. He arose to succour the spirits of the righteous. (Alleluia.)
&Gloria
R. He arose to succour the spirits of the righteous. (Alleluia.)

[Lectio9]
Make heed that ye despise not one of these little ones that believe in Me." He~
hath laid on us a most meet tie to constrain us to love one another, especially~
such as indeed believe in the Lord. " For I say unto you that in heaven their~
Angels do always behold the face of My Father Which is in heaven. For the Son of~
Man is come to save that which was lost." From these words we see, first, that~
the Son of Man saveth secondly, that the Angels do see God and thirdly, that~
the Angels of these little ones have the wardship over the prayers of the~
faithful. That the Angels have this wardship is taught us absolutely. The Angels~
therefore do every day offer to God the prayers which they which are saved do~
make to Him in the Name of Christ. Therefore it is dangerous for a man to~
despise them, seeing that these are they by whose watchful service and ministry,~
his wishes and requests are presented before the throne of the eternal and~
unseen God.
&teDeum

[Ant Laudes]
An Angel stood at the Altar * of the Temple, having a golden censer in his hand. (Alleluia.)
While as the Archangel Michael fought against the dragon, * I heard voices saying Salvation unto our God. Alleluia.
Michael Mine Archangel, * I have appointed thee for a prince over the ingathering of souls. (Alleluia.)
O ye Angels of the Lord, bless ye the Lord always. (Alleluia.)
O ye Angels and Archangels, * O ye Thrones and Dominions, O ye Principalities and Powers, O ye mighty Ones of heaven, praise ye the Lord from the heavens Alleluia.

[Capitulum Laudes]
!Rev 1:1-2
v. God gave unto Jesus Christ to show unto His servants the things which must shortly come to pass and He sent and signified it by His Angel unto His servant John who bare witness of the Word of God and of the testimony of Jesus Christ, of all the things which he saw.
$Deo gratias

[Hymnus Laudes]
v. Christ, of the angels praise and adoration,
Father and Saviour thou, of every nation,
Graciously grant us all to gain a station,
Where thou art reigning.
_
Angel all peaceful, to our dwellings send us,
Michael, from heaven coming to befriend us,
Breathing serenest peace may he attend us,
Grim war dispelling.
_
Angel of strength, who triumphed, tumults quelling,
Gabriel send us, ancient foes expelling,
Oft in these temples may he make his dwelling,
Dear unto heaven.
_
Angel physician, health on man bestowing,
Raphael send us from the skies all glowing,
All sickness curing, wisest counsel showing
In doubt and danger.
_
May the fair Mother of the Light be o'er us,
Virgin of peace, with all the angel chorus,
And may the heavenly army go before us,
Guiding and guarding.
_
O may the Godhead, endless bliss possessing,
Father, Son, Spirit, grant to us this blessing;
All his creation joins his praise confessing,
Now and forever.
Amen.

[Versum 2]
V. An Angel stood at the altar of the Temple. (Alleluia.)
R. Having a golden censer in his hand. (Alleluia.)

[Ant 2]
There was silence * in heaven while as the dragon made war, and Michael fought against him, and prevailed over him. (Alleluia.)

[Lectio Prima]
!Rev 12:7-8
The was a great war in heaven Michael and his angels fought against the dragon and the dragon fought, and his angels and prevailed not neither was their place found anymore in heaven.

[Capitulum Tertia]
!Rev 1:1-2
v. God gave unto Jesus Christ to show unto His servants the things which must shortly come to pass and He sent and signified it by His Angel unto His servant John who bare witness of the Word of God and of the testimony of Jesus Christ, of all the things which he saw.
$Deo gratias

[Responsory Tertia]
R.br. An Angel stood at the Altar of the Temple. Alleluia, Alleluia.
R. An Angel stood at the Altar of the Temple. Alleluia, Alleluia.
V. Having a golden censer in his hand.
R. Alleluia, Alleluia.
&Gloria
R. An Angel stood at the Altar of the Temple. Alleluia, Alleluia.
_
V. And the smoke of the incense ascended up before the Lord. Alleluia.
R. Out of the Angel's hand. Alleluia.

[Capitulum Sexta]
!Rev 5:11-12
v. I heard the voice of many Angels round about the throne, and the living creatures and the elders and the number of them was thousands of thousands, saying with a loud voice Salvation unto our God
$Deo gratias

[Responsory Sexta]
R.br. The smoke of the incense ascended up before the Lord. Alleluia, Alleluia.
R. The smoke of the incense ascended up before the Lord. Alleluia, Alleluia.
V. Out of the Angel's hand.
R. Alleluia, Alleluia.
&Gloria
R. The smoke of the incense ascended up before the Lord. Alleluia, Alleluia.
_
V. Before the Angels will I sing praise unto thee, O my God. Alleluia.
R. I will worship toward thy holy Temple, and praise thy Name. Alleluia.

[Capitulum Nona]
!Rev 12:7-8
v. The was a great war in heaven Michael and his angels fought against the dragon and the dragon fought, and his angels and prevailed not neither was their place found anymore in heaven.
$Deo gratias

[Responsory Nona]
R.br. Before the Angels will I sing praise unto thee, O my God.
R. Before the Angels will I sing praise unto thee, O my God.
V. I will worship toward thy holy Temple, and praise thy Name.
R. Alleluia, Alleluia.
&Gloria
R. Before the Angels will I sing praise unto thee, O my God,
_
V. Worship God. Alleluia.
R. All ye His Angels. Alleluia.

[Versum 3]
V. Before the Angels will I sing praise unto thee, O my God. (Alleluia.)
R. I will worship toward thy holy Temple, and praise thy Name. (Alleluia.)

[Ant 3]
O thou Prince most glorious * Michael the Archangel, remember us and here, and everywhere, alway entreat for us the countenance of the Son of God. Alleluia.
