[Officium]
Sanctissimi Nominis Jesu

[Ant Vespera]
Každý, * kdo bude vzývat jméno Páně, bude spasen.
Svaté a hrozné * je jeho Jméno; bázeň před Bohem je počátek moudrosti.
Já však * se budu radovat v Pánu, a zajásám v Bohu mém Spasiteli.
Přinesu * oběť chvály, a jméno Páně budu vzývat.
Od východu slunce * až na jeho západ je třeba chválit jméno Páně.

[Hymnus Vespera alternative]
v. Vzpomínko sladká, Ježíši,
slast srdcím skýtáš nejvyšší,
však med a všecko převýší
tvůj příchod v nitra zátiší.
_
Nic nelze zapět sladčeji,
nic nezní uchu mileji,
nic nelze myslit vroucněji
než „Ježíš“, jenž mou nadějí.
_
Kajícím snímáš s duše tíž,
prosící vždy rád potěšíš,
k chtějícím k tobě s něhou zříš;
jak šťastni, kdož tě našli již!
_
Nelze to ústy vyslovit,
ba ani písmem vyjevit,
kdo zkusil jen, chce uvěřit,
co Ježíše jest v lásce mít.
_
Buď naší slastí, Ježíši,
odměno srdcí nejvyšší,
buď naší chloubou jedině
v života každé hodině.
Amen.

[Hymnus Vespera]
v. Vzpomínko sladká, Ježíši,
Radosti srdci nejvyšší, 
Med však a všechno převýší
Tvá blízkost, lásko nejčistší.
_
Nic vroucnějšího nelze pět,
Nic milejšího uslyšet,
Nic vřelejšího pomyslet
Než Ježíš, jenž je božství květ.
_
Jezu, naděje kajícím,
Jak milý jsi k všem prosícím,
Jak dobrý k tě hledajícím,
Však co k tě nalézajím?
_
Jazyk nemůže vyslovit, 
Ani písmo snad vyjádřit;
Kdo zažil, může uvěřit,
Co jest k Ježíši lásku mít.
_
Buď, Jezu, naší radostí,
Staň se i odměnou naší;
Buď naše v tobě sláva vždy,
Po nesmírné všechny věky.
Amen.

[Versum 1]
V. Buď Jméno Páně požehnáno, alleluia.
R. Nyní i navěky, alleluia.

[Ant 1]
Učinil mi * veliké věci ten, který je mocný, a svaté je jeho Jméno, alleluja.

[Oratio alt]
Bože, ty jsi svého jednorozeného Syna ustanovil spasitelem lidského pokolení a rozhodl jsi jej nazývat Ježíšem: † uděl milostivě, abychom se, když ctíme jeho jméno na zemi, * mohli radovat z patření na něj v nebi. 
$Per eumdem

[Oratio]
Bože, jenž jsi svého jednorozeného Syna ustanovil Spasitelem lidského rodu, a přikázal jsi nazvati jej Ježíš; uděl laskavě, abychom, když uctíváme jeho jméno na zemi, mohli se z pohledu na něj radovati v nebi.
$Per eumdem

[Invit]
The Name which shall be called Wonderful, the Name of Jesus is the Name which is above every name. * O come, let us worship Him.

[Hymnus Matutinum]
v. Předivný Králi, Ježíši,
ó reku slávy nejvyšší,
tys sladkost, jež vše převýší,
jež všechny tužby utiší.
_
A když mé srdce navštívíš
a pravdy jas v něm zanítíš,
mu rozkoše se zhnusí číš
a srdce změníš v lásky říš.
_
Ó Jezu, srdcí sladkosti,
pravd zdroji, duší jasnosti,
tys nade všecky radosti, 
nad nejvřelejší žádosti.
_
Kéž by tě všichni poznali,
tvé lásky jen si žádali,
tě vroucněji vždy hledali,
až láska hruď jich rozpálí.
_
Ret náš tě, Jezu, oslavuj,
ty z našich mravů vyzařuj,
kéž láskou k tobě každý z nás
lne celým srdcem v každý čas!
Amen.


[Ant Matutinum]
O Lord our Lord, * how admirable is thy name in the whole earth!;;8
At the Name of Jesus, * let every knee bow, of things in heaven, and things in earth, and things under the earth.;;18
Praise the Lord, * and call upon His Name; remember that His Name is exalted.;;23
They shall be mindful * of thy Name, O Lord, unto all generations.;;44
O magnify * the Lord with me, and let us exalt His Name together.;;45
All nations * whom Thou hast made, shall come and worship before thee, O Lord, and shall glorify thy Name.;;86
Sing unto the Lord, * and bless His Name show forth His salvation from day to day.;;95
According to thy Name, O God, * so is thy praise unto the ends of the earth; thy right hand is full of righteousness.;;96
Sing unto God, * sing praises to His Name; spread a path before Him That rideth upon the heavens the Lord is His Name.;;97

[Lectio1]
Lesson from the Acts of the Apostles
!Acts 3:1-8
1 Now Peter and John went up into the temple at the ninth hour of prayer.
2 And a certain man who was lame from his mother's womb, was carried: whom they laid every day at the gate of the temple, which is called Beautiful, that he might ask alms of them that went into the temple.
3 He, when he had seen Peter and John about to go into the temple, asked to receive an alms.
4 But Peter with John fastening his eyes upon him, said: Look upon us.
5 But he looked earnestly upon them, hoping that he should receive something of them.
6 But Peter said: Silver and gold I have none; but what I have, I give thee: In the name of Jesus Christ of Nazareth, arise, and walk.
7 And taking him by the right hand, he lifted him up, and forthwith his feet and soles received strength.
8 And he leaping up, stood, and walked, and went in with them into the temple, walking, and leaping, and praising God.

[Responsory1]
R. Behold, thou shalt conceive, and bring forth a Son, and shalt call His Name Jesus
* For He shall save His people from their sins.
V. His Name was called Jesus, which was so named of the Angel, before He was conceived in the womb.
R. For He shall save His people from their sins.

[Lectio2]
!Acts 3:9-16
9 And all the people saw him walking and praising God.
10 And they knew him, that it was he who sat begging alms at the Beautiful gate of the temple: and they were filled with wonder and amazement at that which had happened to him.
11 And as he held Peter and John, all the people ran to them to the porch which is called Solomon's, greatly wondering.
12 But Peter seeing, made answer to the people: Ye men of Israel, why wonder you at this? or why look you upon us, as if by our strength or power we had made this man to walk?
13 The God of Abraham, and the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob, the God of our fathers, hath glorified his Son Jesus, whom you indeed delivered up and denied before the face of Pilate, when he judged he should be released.
14 But you denied the Holy One and the Just, and desired a murderer to be granted unto you.
15 But the author of life you killed, whom God hath raised from the dead, of which we are witnesses.
16 And in the faith of his name, this man, whom you have seen and known, hath his name strengthened; and the faith which is by him, hath given this perfect soundness in the sight of you all.

[Responsory2]
R. Blessed is thy Name, O God of our fathers, for in wrath Thou wilt remember mercy.
* And in the time of tribulation Thou forgivest the sins of them that call upon thee.
V. And blessed be thy glorious Name for ever, O Thou Who only doest wondrous things!
R. And in the time of tribulation Thou forgivest the sins of them that call upon thee.

[Lectio3]
!Acts 4:5-12
5 And it came to pass on the morrow, that their princes, and ancients, and scribes, were gathered together in Jerusalem;
6 And Annas the high priest, and Caiphas, and John, and Alexander, and as many as were of the kindred of the high priest.
7 And setting them in the midst, they asked: By what power, or by what name, have you done this?
8 Then Peter, filled with the Holy Ghost, said to them: Ye princes of the people, and ancients, hear:
9 If we this day are examined concerning the good deed done to the infirm man, by what means he hath been made whole:
10 Be it known to you all, and to all the people of Israel, that by the name of our Lord Jesus Christ of Nazareth, whom you crucified, whom God hath raised from the dead, even by him this man standeth here before you whole.
11 This is the stone which was rejected by you the builders, which is become the head of the corner.
12 Neither is there salvation in any other. For there is no other name under heaven given to men, whereby we must be saved.

[Responsory3]
R. I will praise thy Name continually;
* Yea, I will praise it with thanksgiving.
V. I will be glad and rejoice in thee I will sing praise to thy Name, O Thou Most High.
R. Yea, I will praise it with thanksgiving.
&Gloria
R. Yea, I will praise it with thanksgiving.

[Lectio4]
From the Sermons of St. Bernard, Abbot (of Clairvaux) 
!1st on the Song of Songs
It is not idly that the Holy Ghost likeneth the Name of the Bridegroom to oil, when He maketh the Bride say to the Bridegroom: thy Name is as oil poured forth. Oil indeed giveth light, meat, and unction. It feedeth fire, it nourisheth the flesh, it sootheth pain; it is light, food, and healing. Behold, Thus also is the Name of the Bridegroom. To preach it, is to give light; to think of it, is to feed the soul; to call on it, is to win grace and unction. Let us take it point by point. What, thinkest thou, hath made the light of faith so suddenly and so brightly to shine in the whole world but the preaching of the Name of Jesus? Is it not in the light of this Name that God hath called us into His marvellous light, even that light wherewith we being enlightened, and in His light seeing light, Paul saith truly of us: Ye were sometimes darkness, but now are ye light in the Lord.

[Responsory4]
R. Let them that know thy Name put their trust in thee
* For Thou, Lord, hast not forsaken them that seek thee.
V. Arise, O Lord, help us, and redeem us for thy Name's sake.
R. For Thou, Lord, hast not forsaken them that seek thee.

[Lectio5]
This is the Name which the Apostle was commanded to bear before Gentiles, and kings, and the children of Israel, the Name which he bore as a light to enlighten his people, crying everywhere The night is far spent, the day is at hand; let us therefore cast off the works of darkness, and let us put on the armour of light, let us walk honestly as in the dayligth, He pointed out to all that candle set upon a candlestick, preaching in every place Jesus and Him crucified. How did that Name shine forth and dazzle every eye that beheld it, when it came like lightning out of the mouth of Peter to give bodily strength to the feet of the lame man, and to clear the sight of many a blind soul? Cast he not fire when he said: In the Name of Jesus Christ of Nazareth, rise up and walk?

[Responsory5]
R. Let us praise thy great Name,
* For it is terrible and holy.
V. Some trust in chariots, and some in horses, but we will call upon the Name of the Lord our God.
R. For it is terrible and holy.

[Lectio6]
The Name of Jesus is not a Name of light only, but it is meat also. Dost thou ever call it to mind, and remain unstrengthened? Is there anything like it to enrich the soul of him that thinketh of it? What is there like it to restore the weakened senses, to fortify strength, to give birth to good lives and pure affections? The soul is fed on husks if that whereon it feedeth lack seasoning with this salt. If thou writest, thou hast no meaning for me if I read not of Jesus there. If thou preach, or dispute, thou hast no meaning for me if I hear not of Jesus there. The mention of Jesus is honey in the mouth, music in the ear, and gladness in the heart. It is our healing too. Is any sorrowful among us? Let the thought of Jesus come into his heart, and spring to his mouth. Behold, when the day of that Name beginneth to break, every cloud will flee away, and there will be a great calm. Doth any fall into sin? Doth any draw nigh to an hopeless death? And if he but call on the life-giving Name of Jesus, will he not draw the breath of a new life again?

[Responsory6]
R. O Lord, let all those that put their trust in thee rejoice, let them ever shout for joy because Thou dwellest in them
* Let them also that love thy Name be joyful in thee.
V. They shall walk, O Lord, in the light of thy countenance; and in thy Name shall they rejoice all the day.
R. Let them also that love thy Name be joyful in thee.
&Gloria
R. Let them also that love thy Name be joyful in thee.

[Lectio7]
From the Holy Gospel according to Luke
!Luke 2:21
In that time: when eight days were accomplished, that the child should be circumcised, his name was called Jesus, which was called by the angel, before he was conceived in the womb. And so on.
_
Homily by St. Bernard, Abbot (of Clairvaux)
!1st on the Circumcision
Behold a mystery, great and full of wonder! The Child is circumcised, and His Name is called Jesus. Why are these two things thus mentioned together? It would seem that circumcision should rather be for the saved than for the Saviour; that the Saviour ought rather to be Circumciser than circumcised. But behold here the Mediator between God and men, how even from His childhood He joineth the things of the Highest to the things of the lowest, the things of God to the things of men. He is born of a woman, but her womb is made fruitful without the loss of the flower of her virginity. He is wrapped in swaddling-bands, but these swaddling-bands are a theme for the jubilation of angels. He is laid in a manger, but a bright star standeth in heaven over the place. So also in His circumcision, the ceremony gave proof of the reality of the Manhood which He had taken, and that Name which is above every name proclaimed the glory of His Blessed Majesty. As very son of Abraham He underwent circumcision; He assumed the Name of Jesus as very Son of God.

[Responsory7]
R. Sorrow and trouble did I find.
* Then called I upon the Name of the Lord.
V. The Name of the Lord is a strong tower; I trusted in Him and I am helped.
R. Then called I upon the Name of the Lord.

[Lectio8]
Why Jesus beareth not that Name as others have borne it before Him, as a vain and empty title. It is not in Him the shadow of a great Name, but the very meaning of that Name. That His Name was revealed from heaven, is attested by the Evangelist, where it is written, Which was so named of the Angel before He was conceived in the womb. After Jesus was born, men called Him Jesus, but angels called Him Jesus, before He was conceived in the womb. The One Lord is the Saviour of angels and of men; of men, since His Incarnation; of angels, from the beginning of their creation. His Name, saith the Evangelist, was called Jesus, which was so named of the Angel before He was conceived in the womb. In the mouth therefore of two or three witnesses is every word established; and that word whereof the Prophet spoke as cut short, is set forth at length in the Gospel: the Word made Flesh.

[Responsory8]
R. O Lord, I will wait on thy Name.
* For it is good before thy Saints.
V. To give thanks unto thy Holy Name, and to triumph in thy praise.
R. For it is good before thy Saints.
&Gloria
R. For it is good before thy Saints.

[Lectio9]
!2nd on the Circumcision
It is no wonder that it should be at His circumcision that the Name of Jesus (which is, being interpreted, Saviour) is given to the Child Who is born unto us, for it was then that He for the first time shed that sinless Blood Which is the mean whereby He hath chosen to work out our salvation. It is no matter for the speculation of Christians why the Lord Christ was pleased to be circumcised. He was circumcised for the same reason for which He was born, and for which He suffered. Neither one nor the other was for Himself, but all for the sake of the elect. He was not born in sin; He was not circumcised to separate Him from sin; neither did He die for sins of His own, but for ours. Which was so named of the Angel before He was conceived in the womb. The Angel indeed gave Him that title of Saviour, but not for the first time. Saviour is His Name from everlasting; He hath it of His own proper nature to save. This title He hath in Himself, not by the gift of anything that He hath made, be it man or Angel.
&teDeum

[Ant Laudes]
Thy Name is as oil * poured forth, therefore do the virgins love thee.
Know ye that the Lord He is God, * and His Name endureth for ever.
My soul thirsteth * for thy Holy Name, O Lord.
Blessed * is the Holy Name of thy glory, and worthy to be praised, and exalted above all for ever.
Young men and maidens, * old men and children, praise the Name of the Lord, for His Name alone is exalted.

[Ant Laudes] (rubrica cisterciensis)
Jménu tvému, Pane, * náleží svatost po všechny časy.
Vylitý olej * je tvé Jméno, a proto si tě mladičké dívky zamilovaly.
Veliké je * tvé Jméno, a úctyhodné mezi Národy, praví Pán.
Ježíš Nazaretský * Král Židů, Vládce nebes, a Pán všech vládců.
Vítězi dám * skrytou mannu, a napíšu mu nové Jméno, jež nikdo nezná, pouze ten, kdo je přijímá.

[Capitulum Laudes]
!Fil 2:8-10
v. Bratři, Kristus ponížil sám sebe a stal se poslušným až k smrti, a to smrti křížem. Proto jej také Bůh povýšil a dal mu jméno, které jest nad každé jiné jméno, aby ve jménu Ježíšově pokleklo každé koleno.
$Deo gratias

[Hymnus Laudes]
v. Květ Andělů jsi, Jezu, všech,
tys uchu sladké písně dech,
tys zázračný med na mých rtech
tys božský nektar v bolestech.
_
Kdo okusí tě, lačněji,
kdo pijí, žízní mocněji,
nic milovat si nepřejí
než Ježíše, svou naději.
_
Ó Jezu, slasti převroucí,
tys naděj' duše prahnoucí,
tě hledá slza horoucí,
výkřik se z nitra deroucí.
_
Buď s námi, Pane, v úzkosti,
nám naplň hruď svou milostí,
vzdal od nás tmy a hořkosti,
svět naplň lásky sladkostí.
_
Výkvěte Panny Nejčistší,
má sladká lásko, Ježíši,
buď tobě sláva nejvyšší
a vláda v rajském zátiší.
Amen.

[Ant 2]
He gave Himself * to deliver His people, and to get Himself an everlasting Name. Alleluia.

[Ant 2] (rubrica cisterciensis)
Dáno mu bylo * Jméno Ježíš, jak nazval jej Anděl ještě předtím, než byl počat v lůně.

[Lectio Prima]
!Kol 3:17
v. Cokoliv budete dělat ve slově či ve skutku; všechno dělejte ve jménu Pána Ježíše Krista, a vzdávejte díky Bohu a Otci skrze něho.

[Responsory Breve Tertia]
R.br. Buď Jméno Páně velebeno, * Alleluja, alleluja.
R. Buď Jméno Páně velebeno, * Alleluja, alleluja.
V. Od této chvíli až navěky.
R. Alleluja, alleluja.
&Gloria
R. Buď Jméno Páně velebeno, * Alleluja, alleluja.

[Versum Tertia]
V. Vzdejte Hospodinu slávu a čest, alleluja.
R. Vzdejte Hospodinu slávu jeho jménu, alleluja.

[Capitulum Sexta]
!Fil 2:10-11
v. Ve jménu Ježíšově poklekne každé koleno na nebi, na zemi i v podsvětí; a každý jazyk musí vyznat, že Pán Ježíš Kristus je ve slávě Boha Otce.
$Deo gratias

[Responsory Breve Sexta]
R.br. Vzdejte Hospodinu slávu a čest, * Alleluja, alleluja.
R. Vzdejte Hospodinu slávu a čest, * Alleluja, alleluja.
V. Vzdejte Hospodivu slávu jeho jménu.
R. Alleluja, alleluja.
&Gloria
R. Vzdejte Hospodinu slávu a čest, * Alleluja, alleluja.

[Responsory Breve Sexta] (rubrica cisterciensis)
R.br. Vzdejte Hospodinu * slávu a čest.
R. Vzdejte Hospodinu * slávu a čest.
V. Vzdejte Hospodinu slávu jeho jménu.
R. Slávu a čest

[Versum Sexta]
V. Velebte Hospodina se mnou, alleluia.
R. A vyvyšujme spolu jeho Jméno, alleluia.

[Responsory Breve Nona]
R.br. Velebte Hospodina se mnou, * Alleluja, alleluja.
R. Velebte Hospodina se mnou, * Alleluja, alleluja.
V. A vyvyšujme spolu jeho Jméno.
R. Alleluja, alleluja.
&Gloria
R. Velebte Hospodina se mnou, * Alleluja, alleluja.

[Versum Nona]
V. Pomoc naše ve jménu Páně, alleluja.
R. Který stvořil nebe a zemi, alleluja.

[Ant 3]
Thou shalt call His Name Jesus, * for He shall save His people from their sins, alleluia.

[Ant 3] (rubrica cisterciensis)
Nechť velebí * každá duše tvé Jméno, Pane, a duch každého ať v něm jásá, neboť je svaté, a má moc srazit mocné z trůnu, a pokorné povýšit, alleluja.

[Nocturn 1 Versum]
V. For thy Name's sake, O Lord, pardon mine iniquity.
R. For it is great.

[Nocturn 2 Versum]
V. For the glory of thy Name, deliver us, O Lord.
R. And forgive our sins, for thy Name's sake.

[Nocturn 2 Versum] (rubrica cisterciensis)
V. Dobré je chválit Hospodina.
R. A chválu pět tvému jménu, Nejvyšší.

[Nocturn 3 Versum] (rubrica cisterciensis)
V. Chvalte Hospodina, a vzývejte jeho Jméno.
R. Rozhlašujte mezi Národy jeho díla.
