On the morrow we keep the feast of holy Swithun, Bishop of Winchester, of whom mention is made upon the 2nd day of this present month of July. 
Upon the same 15 th day of July, were born into the better life  
_
At Bamberg, the holy Emperor Henry II. He and his wife Cunegunda preserved perpetual virginity. He brought holy Stephen, king of Hungary, and nearly all his realm, to believe in Christ, [972-1029.] We keep feast in his honour upon the 21st day of this present month of July. 
At Porto, in Italy, the holy martyrs Eutropius and the sisters Zosima and Bonosa. 
At Carthage, the blessed Deacon Catulinus, in praise of whom holy Austin preached a sermon to the people, and the holy martyrs Januarius, Florence, Julia, and Justa, who were buried in the Basilica of Faustus. 
At Alexandria, the holy martyrs Philip, Zeno, Narseus, and ten little children. 
In the island of Tenedos, the holy martyr Abudemius, who suffered under Diocletian. 
At Sebaste, the holy physician Antiochus, who was beheaded under the President Hadrian. Milk ran out of his body instead of blood, whereby Cyriacus the headsman was turned to Christ, and himself suffered martyrdom. 
At Pavia, the holy martyr Felix, Bishop [of that see, in the year 243-] At Nisibis, holy James, Bishop of that city, a man of great holiness, and famous for his wonders and his learning. He was one of the Confessors in the persecution under the Emperor Galerius Maximian. At the Council of Nice, [in the year 325,] he condemned the perversity of Arius in opposing the definition that our Lord Christ is homousius that is, of one Being with the Father, and it was at the prayers of this James, and of Alexander Archbishop of Constantinople, that the same Arius received the due reward of his iniquity at Constantinople, when his bowels gushed out. 
At Naples, in Campania, holy Athanasius, Bishop of that city, who suffered much from his ungodly nephew Sergius, and was thrust out of his see. 
In the time of King Charles the Bald, [in the year 872,] he passed away from earth to heaven, worn out with sorrow, at Veroli. 
At Palermo is commemorated the finding of the body of the holy Virgin Rosalie of that city. It was found by revelation from God, in the year of the jubilee, under the Supreme Pontiff Urban VIII., and Sicily was freed from the plague. [She was of the family of Charlemagne, and was born at Palermo in 1130 and died in 1160. 
Her body was found in 1625, when the exposition of it caused the plague to cease at Palermo.] 
