@Commune/C3

[Ant Matutinum]
By the rivers of water * hath the Lord planted the vineyard of the righteous, and in His Law do they meditate day and night;;1
As gold in the furnace * hath the Lord tried His chosen ones, and received them for ever as a burnt-offering.;;2
Oculi Domini * respexerunt in pauperes, cum peccatores arcus suos in eos intercederent;;10
I will give unto My Saints a place * in the kingdom of My Father, every one by his own name, saith the Lord;;14
To the Saints that are in the earth * Thou hast made all my counsels admirable;;15
The Saints that wait upon the Lord * shall renew their strength; they shall mount up with wings as eagles, they shall fly and not faint;;23
V. Be glad in the Lord, and rejoice, ye righteous.
R. And shout for joy, all ye that are upright in heart.
The righteous live * for evermore; their reward also is with the Lord;;32
They gave up their bodies unto death * rather than serve idols and therefore have they crowns on their heads and palms in their hands;;33
Behold, how great with God is the reward * of His Saints yea, they who died for Christ's sake shall live for ever and ever;;45
For theirs is the Kingdom of heaven * who love not their lives in this world, and have attained unto the reward of the Kingdom, and have washed their robes in the blood of the Lamb.;;60
The blood * of the holy Martyrs was poured for Christ on earth, therefore they have obtained eternal rewards.;;63
Avenge, O Lord, the blood of thy saints, which is shed over the Earth;;78
V. Let the righteous rejoice before God.
R. Yea, let them exceedingly rejoice.
Beati, * qui persecutionem patiuntur propter iustitiam, quoniam ipsorum est regnum coelorum;;259;254;255
V. The righteous live for evermore.
R. Their reward also is with the Lord.

[MM Capitulum]
!Sap 10:17
v. She rendered to the just the wages of their labours, and conducted them in a wonderful way: and she was to them for a covert by day, and for the light of stars by night:
$Deo gratias
_
V. The souls of the just are in the hand of God,
R. The torment of death shall not touch them.

[Responsory9]
R. But the souls of the just are in the hand of God, and the torment of death~
shall not touch them. In the sight of the unwise they seemed to die
* But they are in peace.
V. God hath tried them, and found them worthy of himself.
R. But they are in peace.
&Gloria
R. But they are in peace.

[LectioE]
Continuation of the Holy Gospel according to Luke
!Luke 21:9-19
21:9 And when you shall hear of wars and seditions, be not terrified: these things must first come to pass; but the end is not yet presently.
21:10 Then he said to them: Nation shall rise against nation, and kingdom against kingdom.
21:11 And there shall be great earthquakes in diverse places, and pestilences, and famines, and terrors from heaven; and there shall be great signs.
21:12 But before all these things, they will lay their hands upon you, and persecute you, delivering you up to the synagogues and into prisons, dragging you before kings and governors, for my name's sake.
21:13 And it shall happen unto you for a testimony.
21:14 Lay it up therefore into your hearts, not to meditate before how you shall answer:
21:15 For I will give you a mouth and wisdom, which all your adversaries shall not be able to resist and gainsay.
21:16 And you shall be betrayed by your parents and brethren, and kinsmen and friends; and some of you they will put to death.
21:17 And you shall be hated by all men for my name's sake.
21:18 But a hair of your head shall not perish.
21:19 In your patience you shall possess your souls.
$Te decet
