@Commune/C6

[Ant Matutinum]
O how lovely and glorious * is the generation of the chaste.;;8
Sing for us again and again before this maiden's bed * the tender idylls of the play.;;18
Return, return, O Shulammith * Return, return, that we may look upon thee.;;23
In thy comeliness and thy beauty, * go forward, fare prosperously, and reign.;;44
God shall help * her with His countenance is in the midst of her; she shall not be moved.;;45 
Many waters cannot * quench love.;;47
V. In thy comeliness and thy beauty.
R. Go forward, fare prosperously, and reign.
I am black but comely, * O ye daughters of Jerusalem; therefore hath the King loved me, and brought me into his chamber.;;84
Draw me after thee * we will run after the savour of thy good ointments; thy name is as oil poured forth.;;86
Come, Bride of Christ, * and take the everlasting crown which the Lord hath prepared for thee.;;95
Thy name is as oil poured out: * therefore young maidens have loved thee.;;96
O my love, * sweet and comely as Jerusalem: terrible as an army set in array.;;97
She hath girded * her loins with strength, and hath strengthened her arm.;;98
V. God shall help her with His countenance.
R. God is in the midst of her she shall not be moved.
And at midnight * there was a cry made: Behold the bridegroom cometh, go ye forth to meet him.;;249;250;251
V. God hath chosen her, and fore-chosen her.
R. He hath made her to dwell in His tabernacle.


[MM Capitulum]
!2 Cor 11:2
For I am jealous of you with the jealousy of God. For I have espoused you to one husband that I may present you as a chaste virgin to Christ.
$Deo gratias
_
V. Thou hast loved righteousness, and hated iniquity
R. Therefore God, thy God, hath anointed thee with the oil of justice.

[MM Capitulum mart]
!Eccli 51:4-5
And thou hast delivered me, according to the multitude of the mercy of thy name, from them that did roar, prepared to devour. Out of the hands of them that sought my life, and from the gates of afflictions, which compassed me about
$Deo gratias
_
R. Thou hast loved righteousness, and hated iniquity
* Therefore God, thy God, hath anointed thee with the oil of justice.

[Capitulum Nona1]
!Sir 51:13-14
v. O Lord, my God, thou hast exalted my dwelling place upon the earth and I have~
prayed for death to pass away. I called upon the Lord, the father of my Lord,~
that he would not leave me in the day of my trouble, and in the time of the~
proud without help.
$Deo gratias

[Lectio31]
!Sir 51:13-17
13 Thou hast exalted my dwelling place upon the earth and I have prayed for death to pass away. 
14 I called upon the Lord, the father of my Lord, that he would not leave me in the day of my trouble, and in the time of the proud without help. 
15 I will praise thy name continually, and will praise it with thanksgiving, and my prayer was heard.
16 And thou hast saved me from destruction, and hast delivered me from the evil time. 
17 Therefore I will give thanks, and praise thee, and bless the name of the Lord.

[LectioE]
Continuation of the Holy Gospel according to Matthew
!Matt 25:1-13
25:1 Then shall the kingdom of heaven be like to ten virgins, who taking their lamps went out to meet the bridegroom and the bride.
25:2 And five of them were foolish, and five wise.
25:3 But the five foolish, having taken their lamps, did not take oil with them:
25:4 But the wise took oil in their vessels with the lamps.
25:5 And the bridegroom tarrying, they all slumbered and slept.
25:6 And at midnight there was a cry made: Behold the bridegroom cometh, go ye forth to meet him.
25:7 Then all those virgins arose and trimmed their lamps.
25:8 And the foolish said to the wise: Give us of your oil, for our lamps are gone out.
25:9 The wise answered, saying: Lest perhaps there be not enough for us and for you, go ye rather to them that sell, and buy for yourselves.
25:10 Now whilst they went to buy, the bridegroom came: and they that were ready, went in with him to the marriage, and the door was shut.
25:11 But at last come also the other virgins, saying: Lord, Lord, open to us.
25:12 But he answering said: Amen I say to you, I know you not.
25:13 Watch ye therefore, because you know not the day nor the hour.
$Te decet
