@Commune/C7

[Ant Matutinum]
O how lovely and glorious is the generation * of the chaste;;8
His left hand is under my head, * and his right hand doth embrace me;;18
Return, return, O Shulammith, * return, return, that we may look upon thee;;23
In thy comeliness and thy beauty, * go forward, fare prosperously, and reign;;44
God shall help her with His countenance * God is in the midst of her; she shall not be moved;;45
Many waters cannot * quench love;;47
V. In thy comeliness and thy beauty.
R. Go forward, fare prosperously, and reign.
I am black but comely, * O ye daughters of Jerusalem therefore hath the King loved me, and brought me into His chamber;;84
Draw me after thee * we will run after the savour of thy good ointments, thy name is as oil poured forth;;86
Come, Bride of Christ, * and take the everlasting crown, which the Lord hath prepared for thee;;95
Thy name is as oil poured out: * therefore young maidens have loved thee.;;96
O my love, * sweet and comely as Jerusalem: terrible as an army set in array.;;97
She hath girded * her loins with strength, and hath strengthened her arm.;;98
V. God shall help her with His countenance.
R. God is in the midst of her she shall not be moved.
And at midnight * there was a cry made: Behold the bridegroom cometh, go ye forth to meet him.;;249;250;251
V. God hath chosen her, and fore-chosen her.
R. He hath made her to dwell in His Tabernacle.


[MM Capitulum]
!Prov 31:20-21
v. She hath opened her hand to the needy, and stretched out her hands to the poor.
31:21 She shall not fear for her house in the cold of snow: for dl her domestics are clothed with double garments.
$Deo gratias
_
V. Thou hast loved righteousness, and hated iniquity
R. Therefore God, thy God, hath anointed thee with the oil of gladness.

[Responsory9]
R. Blessed are you N. who for God's sake, hated the world
* Therefore the Kingdom of Heaven is yours
V. Thou hast loved righteousness, and hated iniquity
R. Therefore the Kingdom of Heaven is yours
&Gloria
R. Therefore the Kingdom of Heaven is yours

[LectioE]
Continuation of the Holy Gospel according to Matthew
!Matt 13:44-52
3:44 The kingdom of heaven is like unto a treasure hidden in a field. Which a man having found, hid it, and for joy thereof goeth, and selleth all that he hath, and buyeth that field.
13:45 Again the kingdom of heaven is like to a merchant seeking good pearls.
13:46 Who when he had found one pearl of great price, went his way, and sold all that he had, and bought it.
13:47 Again the kingdom of heaven is like to a net cast into the sea, and gathering together of all kind of fishes.
13:48 Which, when it was filled, they drew out, and sitting by the shore, they chose out the good into vessels, but the bad they cast forth.
13:49 So shall it be at the end of the world. The angels shall go out, and shall separate the wicked from among the just.
13:50 And shall cast them into the furnace of fire: there shall be weeping and gnashing of teeth.
13:51 Have ye understood all these things? They say to him: Yes.
13:52 He said unto them: Therefore every scribe instructed in the kingdom of heaven, is like to a man that is a householder, who bringeth forth out of his treasure new things and old.
$Te decet
