[Rank]
S. Bedae Venerabilis Confessoris et Ecclesiae Doctoris;;Duplex majus;;4;;vide C5a

[RankNewcal]
S. Bedae Venerabilis Confessoris et Ecclesiae Doctoris;;Duplex optional;;2;;vide C5a

[Rule]
vide C5;mtv
9 lectiones
CPapaM=Janos;

[Name]
Beda

[Oratio]
O God, Who dost enlighten Thy Church by the learning of blessed Bede Thy Confessor and our teacher, mercifully grant unto Thy servants ever to be enlightened by his wisdom and holpen for his sake.
$Per Dominum

[Commemoratio]
!Commemoratio S. John pope and martyr
@Commune/C2:Oratio proper
$Oremus
Being appeased turn to thy flock, eternal Shepherd, and through blessed John thy Martyr and Supreme Pontiff, whom thou didst make the pastor of the whole Church, guard and protect it forever.
$Per Dominum

[Lectio4]
Bede, a priest, was born at Jarrow, on the borders of England and Scotland. At the age of seven years he was placed under the care of holy Benedict Biscop, Abbat of Wearmouth, to be educated. Thereafter he became a monk, and so ordered his life that, whilst he should devote himself wholly to the study of the sciences and of doctrine, he might in nothing relax the discipline of his Order. There was no branch of learning in which he was not most thoroughly versed, but his chief care was the study of Holy Scriptures; and that he might the better understand them he acquired a knowledge of the Greek and Hebrew tongues. When he was thirty years of age he was ordained priest at the command of his Abbat, and immediately, on the advice of Acca, Bishop of Hexham, undertook the work of expounding the Sacred Books. In his interpretations he so strictly adhered to the teaching of the holy Fathers that he would advance nothing which was not approved by their judgment, nay, had the warrant of their very words. He ever hated sloth, and by habitually passing from reading to prayer, and in turn from prayer to reading, he so inflamed his soul that often amid his reading and teaching he was bathed in tears. Lest also his mind should be distracted by the cares of transitory things, he never would take the office of Abbat when it was offered to him.

[Lectio5]
The name of Bede soon became so famous for learning and piety that St Sergius the Pope thought of calling him to Rome, where, certainly, he might have helped to solve the very difficult questions which had then arisen concerning sacred things. He wrote many books for the bettering of the lives of the faithful, and defending and extending of the faith. By those he gained everywhere such a reputation that the holy martyr Bishop Boniface styled him a Light of the Church ; Lanfranc called him The Teacher of the English, and the Council of~
Aix-la-Chapelle The Admirable Doctor. But as his writings were publicly read in the churches during his life, and as it was not allowable to call him already a saint, they named him The Venerable, a title which in all times after has remained peculiarly his. The power of his teaching was the greater also, in that it was attested by a holy life and the graces of religious observance. In this way, by his earnestness and example, his disciples, who were many and distinguished, were made eminent, not only in letters and the sciences, but in personal holiness.

[Lectio6]
Broken at length by age and labour, he was seized by a grievous illness. Though he suffered under it for more than seven weeks, he ceased not from his prayers and his interpreting of the Scriptures; for at that time he was turning the Gospel of John into English for the use of his people. But when, on the Eve of the Ascension, he perceived that death was coming upon him, he desired to be fortified with the last sacraments of the Church : then, after he had embraced his companions, and was laid on a piece of sackcloth on the ground, he repeated the words, Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Ghost, and fell asleep in the Lord. His body, very sweet, as it is related, breathing sweet odour, was buried in the monastery of Jarrow, and afterwards was translated to Durham with the relics of St Cuthbert. Bede, who was already a Doctor among the Benedictines, and in other religious Orders, and venerated in certain dioceses, was declared by Pope Leo XIII., after consulting with the Congregation of Sacred Rites, to be a Doctor of the universal Church; and the Mass and Office for Doctors was ordered to be recited by all on his feast-day.

[Lectio94]
Bede the Priest first saw the light at Jarrow on the borders of Britain  and Scotland. Becoming a monk, he so ordered his life that, though he spent himself wholly in study of the arts and learning, he never neglected any part of the Monastic discipline. Every branch of learning he studied diligently, but most of all he loved to meditate on the holy Scriptures, so that after he had been ordained priest he set himself to explain the sacred books. In this he so clave to the teachings of the Fathers that he put forth no opinion unless it was corrobrated by their judgment, even using almost their very words. Always a hater of idleness, he would pass from reading to prayer, and then back again
from prayer to reading. To amend the conduct of the faithful, and to vindicate and assert the Faith, he wrote many books, which gained him such high esteem that even while he was still living his writings were read publicly in the churches, and that was first how he became to be called, the Venerable. At last worn out by years and hard work, he fell asleep holily in the Lord. He was declared by Leo XIII Doctor of the Universal Church.
&teDeum

[Lectio7]
Evangélium szent Máté Apostol kõnyvébõl
!Matt 5:13-19
Azon idõben így szólt Jézus tanítványaihoz: Ti vagytok a föld sója. Ha a só ízét veszti, ugyan mivel sózzák meg? Nem való egyébre, mint hogy kidobják, s az emberek eltapossák. Ti vagytok a világ világossága. A hegyen épült várost nem lehet elrejteni. És így tovább.
_
Homily of the Venerable Bede, Priest.
!On the Gospel
The Gospel saith, Ye are the salt of the earth. In these words the earth signifies human nature, and the salt signifies wisdom. Salt, verily, by its nature renders the earth unfruitful. Hence we read of cities, which in the anger of their victors were sown with salt. And hereto agreeth the teaching of the Apostle that by the salt of wisdom the lust of this world is restrained in the earth of human flesh, lest the foulness of vice should sprout up. But what if the salt shall have lost its savour? That is to say If you, by whom the people are to be seasoned, are, on account of fear of persecution, or terror, you should lose the kingdom of heaven, placed outside the Church, there is no doubt that you will incur the taunts of the enemy. Ye are the light of the world that is to say You, because ye are enlightened by the true light, ought to be the light of them who are in the world. A city set on an hill cannot be hid ; that is to say The Apostles' teaching, founded upon Christ; in other words, the Church built upon Christ, out of many nations, in the unity of the faith, and bound together with the cement of love; to those who enter it, a place of safety; to those who go up to it, toilsome; the guardian of those who dwell in it, and excluding every enemy.

[Lectio8]
It either doth any man light a candle and put it under a bushel; but upon a candlestick. So he who puts the light under the bushel is he who for his own temporal ends would hide and tamper with the light of doctrine; but upon the candlestick he places it who follows the ministry of God in order that the teaching of the truth may be accounted a greater thing than the service of the body. In another aspect, the Saviour lighted the candle when He filled our mortal body with the flame of the God-head; and He placed it on a candlestick, that is the Church; for He fixed the faith of His incarnation upon our foreheads. Which light cannot be placed under a bushel; that is to say, it cannot be included within the measures of the law, nor in Judea alone, but has lightened the whole earth.

[Lectio9]
!Commemoration for St John L, Pope and Martyr.)
Pope John I. was a Tuscan, who ruled the Church during the reign of the Emperor Justinian. He went to Constantinople to get help from Justinian in the troubles which the heretic King Theodoric was then causing in Italy. It pleased the Lord to mark this journey with wonders. A certain nobleman at Corinth lent to the Pope for his journey a very quiet horse on which his own wife was used to ride. But when the horse was returned to his owner he was found become so vicious, that by his restiveness and plunging he was always throwing off his mistress, as though he were not content to carry the lady after having carried the Vicar of Jesus Christ. When the nobleman and his wife found the beast to be thus worthless, they gave him for a present to the Pope. But a thing much more marvellous was that when the Pope, accompanied by the Emperor, and under the gaze of an immense multitude of people, who had come forth with Justinian to do him honour, was at the entering in of the Golden Gate of Constantinople, he gave sight to a blind man. Even the Emperor fell at his feet to show him respect. When he had arranged his business with Justinian he returned into Italy, and forthwith sent out a letter to all the Bishops of Italy, bidding them hallow for Catholic worship the churches of the Arians, and adding these words: We Ourselves when We were at Constantinople on some matters pertaining to the Catholic Religion and others pertaining to the King Theodoric, hallowed as Catholic all their Churches which We were able to find in those parts. Theodoric took this rule very ill, and, having enticed John by fraud to come to Ravenna,~
he cast him into prison, wherein, in a few days, he died of filth and hunger. He had sat in the chair of Peter two years, nine months, and fourteen days, within which time he had ordained fifteen Bishops. A little while afterward Theodoric also died. St Gregory writeth that a certain hermit saw him between Pope John and Symmachus the Patrician, whom he had likewise slain, going down into the fiery crater of Lipari, as though they who had been his victims were become the judges of his punishment. The body of John was carried from Ravenna to Rome, and there buried in the Church of St Peter.
&teDeum

[Lectio94]
Bede the priest was born at Jarrow, on the borders of England and Scotland. When a monk, he so arranged his life as to devote himself completely to the study of the liberal arts and sacred doctrine, without in any way relaxing the discipline of the Rule. There was no kind of learning in which he was not thoroughly versed ; but his special interest was the study of the Scriptures ; and when he was made a priest, he undertook the task of explaining the holy books. In doing so, he adhered to the teaching of the holy Fathers so closely that he would say nothing not already approved by their judgment, and he even made use of their very words. Abhorring laziness, he would go straight from reading to prayer and from prayer to reading. To raise the level of morality among Christians and to defend and spread the faith, he wrote many books, which gained him such a reputation with everyone that his writings were publicly read in churches during his own lifetime. At length, worn out with age and labours, he fell asleep peacefully in the Lord. Leo XIII declared him a Doctor of the universal Church.
&teDeum
