[Rank]
The Transfiguratione Domini Nostri Jesu Christi;;Duplex II classis;;5.1;;

[Rank1960]
The Transfiguratione Domini Nostri Jesu Christi;;Duplex II classis;;5;;

[Rule]
proper
Domini
9 lectiones
Psalmi Dominica
Antiphonas horas
Psalm5 Vespera=116

[Ant Vespera]
Jesus took Peter, * and James, and John his brother, and brought them up into an high mountain apart and was transfigured before them.
His Face did shine as the sun, * and His raiment exceeding white as snow. Alleluia.
And, behold, there appeared unto them Moses and Elias, * talking with Jesus.
Then answered Peter, * and said unto Jesus Lord, it is good for us to be here.
While he yet spake, * behold, a bright cloud overshadowed them.

[Capitulum Vespera]
!Phil 3:20-21
v. A mi polgárságunk azonban a mennyben van. Onnan várjuk az Üdvözítõt is, Urunkat, Jézus Krisztust. Õ azzal az erõvel, amellyel mindent hatalma alá vethet, átalakítja gyarló testünket, és hasonlóvá teszi megdicsõült testéhez.
$Deo gratias

[Hymnus Vespera]
Mindnyájan Krisztus-keresôk,
Emeljétek föl szemetek:
A magasságban megjelen
örök dicsôség nagy Jele.
_
Nagy dolgot szemlél ott szemünk,
Magasságost, felségeset,
Nem ismer véget, változást;
Égnél, kaosznál ôsiebb.
_
A nemzetek Királya ez,
S a zsidó nép Királya is,
Ki Ábrahám atyánknak és
Utódainak ígértetett.
_
Imhol bizonyságot teszen
Az Atya róla s rendelést,
És Próféták tanúk reá:
Hogy higgyük és hallgassuk Ôt.
_
Áldunk Jézus, ki a kicsik
Elôtt jelented meg magad,
S az Atyát és Szentlelket is
Most és örök idôkön át.
Ámen.

[Doxology]
Áldunk Jézus, ki a kicsik
Elôtt jelented meg magad,
S az Atyát és Szentlelket is
Most és örök idôkön át.
Ámen.

[Versum 1]
V. Thou wast manifested in thy glory in the Presence of the Lord.
R. Therefore the Lord hath clothed thee with majesty.

[Ant 1]
Christ Jesus, being the Brightness * of the Father's glory, and the express Image of His Person, and upholding all things by the word of His power, when He was about purging our sins, was pleased, as on this day, to manifest forth His glory upon an high mountain.

[Oratio]
O God, Who, in the glorious Transfiguration of thine Only Begotten Son didst attest the mysteries of the Faith by the witness of the Fathers, and didst wonderfully signify by a voice out of a bright cloud, the adoption of sons, mercifully grant unto us to be made co-heirs with the very King of glory, and bestow upon us a partaking of His glory.
$Per eumdem

[Commemoratio]
!Commemoratio Ss. Xysti, Felicissimi et Agapiti Martyrum.
@Commune/C3:Oratio proper
O God, Who dost gladden us by the yearly Feast-day of thine holy Martyrs, Xystus, felicissimus et Agapitus, mercifully grant unto us who keep their birth-day, the strength to imitate their patience under suffering.
$Per Dominum


[Invit]
The Most High King, the King of glory, even Christ, * Him let us worship.

[Hymnus Matutinum]
@Sancti/08-06:Hymnus Vespera

[Ant Matutinum]
Even while He was made a little lower than the angels, * He was crowned with glory and honour, and made to have dominion over the works of God's hands;;8
The Lord discovered the thickets, * and in His temple every whit of it uttereth His glory;;28
Thou art fairer than the children of men * grace is poured into thy lips;;44.
V. Thou wast manifested in thy glory in the Presence of the Lord.
R. Therefore the Lord hath clothed thee with majesty.
When Thou didst of make thy light to shine forth right wondrously * from the everlasting hills, all they that were foolish of heart were troubled;;75
A day in thy courts * is better than a thousand;;83
Glorious things are spoken * of thee, O city of God!;;86
V. Thou hast crowned him with glory and honour, O Lord
R. And madest him to have dominion over the works of thy hands.
Tabor and Hermon shall rejoice in thy Name. * Thou hast a mighty arm;;88
Light is sprung up for the righteous, * and gladness for the upright in heart;;96
He was clothed with honour and majesty, * covering Himself with light as with a garment;;103
V. His glory is great in thy salvation.
R. Honour and great majesty shalt Thou lay upon him.

[Lectio1]
Olvasmány szent Péter apostol második levelébõl
!2 Pet 1:10-14
10 Testvérek, ezért még inkább törekedjetek rá, hogy hivatásotokat és kiválasztottságotokat tetteitekkel megpecsételjétek, mert ha ezt megteszitek, nem botoltok el soha.
11 Így lesz ugyanis könnyû számotokra a bemenetel Urunknak és Megváltónknak, Jézus Krisztusnak örök országába.
12 Ezért folyton azon leszek, hogy emlékeztesselek benneteket ezekre, ha ismeritek is, és biztosak vagytok is a most felfogható igazságban.
13 Kötelességemnek tartom ugyanis, hogy amíg e sátorban élek, buzdítsalak és ösztönözzelek benneteket,
14 mert tudom, hogy közel van sátram levetése, mint azt Urunk, Jézus Krisztus is tudtomra adta.

[Responsory1]
R. Arise, shine, O Jerusalem, for thy light is come
* and the glory of the Lord is risen upon thee.
V. And the Gentiles shall come to thy light, and kings to the brightness of thy rising.
R. And the glory of the Lord is risen upon thee.

[Lectio2]
!2 Pet 1:15-17
15 De igyekszem, hogy ezekre halálom után is mindig emlékezzetek.
16 Mert nem kieszelt meséket vettünk alapul, amikor tudtul adtuk nektek Jézus Krisztus hatalmát és eljövetelét, mert hiszen szemlélõi voltunk fenségének.
17 Amikor ugyanis az Atyaisten tiszteletet nyilvánított iránta és megdicsõítette, ez a szózat hallatszott rá vonatkozóan a fölséges dicsõség hazájából: "Ez az én szeretett Fiam, akiben kedvem telik."

[Responsory2]
R. The Holy Ghost was manifested in the bright cloud and the Father was heard
* This is My beloved Son, in Whom I am well pleased hear ye Him.
V. There was a cloud that overshadowed them, and the voice of the Father came out thereof in thunder
R. This is My beloved Son, in Whom I am well pleased hear ye Him.

[Lectio3]
!2 Pet 1:18-21
18 Ezt az égbõl jövõ szózatot mi is hallottuk, amikor ott voltunk vele a szent hegyen.
19 Így a prófétai jövendöléseket még jobban hisszük. Jól teszitek, ha figyeltek rájuk, mint sötétben világító lámpásra, amíg a nappal fel nem virrad, és a hajnalcsillag fel nem ragyog a szívetekben.
20 Elõször is azt értsétek meg, hogy az Írásnak egyetlenegy jövendölése sem származik önkényes értelmezésbõl.
21 Hisz sohasem keletkezett jövendölés emberi akaratból, hanem mindig csak a Szentlélektõl sugalmazva beszéltek - Isten megbízottaiként - a szent emberek.

[Responsory3]
R. Behold what manner of love God the Father hath bestowed upon us,
* That we should be called, and should be, the sons of God.
V. We know that when He shall appear, we shall be like Him, for we shall see Him as He is.
R. That we should be called, and should be, the Sons of God.
&Gloria
R. That we should be called, and should be, the Sons of God.

[Lectio4]
From the Sermons of Pope St Leo (the Great.)
!On the Transfiguration.
The Lord taketh chosen witnesses, and in their presence, revealeth His glory. That form of body which He had in common with other men, He so transfigured with light, that His Face did shine as the sun, and His raiment became exceeding white as snow. Of this metamorphosis the chief work was to remove from the hearts of the disciples the stumbling at the Cross. Before their eyes was unveiled the splendour of His hidden majesty, that the lowliness of His freely-chosen suffering might not confound their faith. But none the less was there here laid by the Providence of God a solid foundation for the hope of the Holy Church, whereby the whole body of Christ should know with what a change it is yet to be honoured. The members of that body whose Head hath already been transfigured in light may promise themselves a share in His glory.

[Responsory4]
R. They were abundantly satisfied with the fatness of thy house, and
*Thou madest them drink of the river of thy pleasures.
V. For with thee is the fountain of life, and in thy light shall we see light.
R. And Thou madest them drink of the river of thy pleasures.

[Lectio5]
For the strengthening the Apostles and bringing them forward into all knowledge, there appeared unto them Moses and Elias that is, the Law and the Prophets talking with Him. Before five witnesses did His glorification take place, as though to fulfil that which is written At the mouth of two witnesses, or at the mouth of three witnesses, shall the matter be established. (Deut. xix. 15.) What can be more certain, what can be better attested than this matter, which is proclaimed by the trumpets of both the Old and the New Testaments, and concerning which the witness of ancient testimony uniteth with the teaching of the Gospel The pages of either Covenant strengthen one another, and the brightness of open glory maketh manifest and distinct Him Whom the former prophecies had promised under the veil of mysteries.

[Responsory5]
R. Master, it is good for us to be here.
* Let us make here three tabernacles, one for thee, and one for Moses, and one for Elias.
V. For he wist not what to say.
R. Let us make here three tabernacles, one for thee, and one for Moses, and one for Elias.

[Lectio6]
The unveiling of such mysteries roused the mind of the Apostle Peter to an outburst of longing for the things eternal, which despised and disdained the things worldly and earthly overflowing with gladness at the vision, he yearned to dwell with Jesus there, where the revelation of His glory had rejoiced him. And so he said Master, it is good for us to be here if Thou wilt, let us make here three tabernacles, one for thee, and one for Moses, and one for Elias. To this proposal the Lord answered nothing, this signifying, that what Peter wished was not wrong, but out of place, since the world could not be saved but by the death of Christ. And the Lord's example was to call the faith of believers to this, that albeit we are behoven to have no doubts concerning the promise of eternal blessedness, yet we are to understand that, amid the trials of this life, we are to seek for endurance before glory.

[Responsory6]
R. If the ministration of death, written and engraven on stones, was glorious, so that the children of Israel could not steadfastly behold the face of Moses, for the glory of his countenance which is done away
* How shall not the ministration of the Spirit, which abideth, be rather glorious
V. For Christ was counted worthy of more glory than Moses, inasmuch as he who hath builded the house hath more honour than the house.
R. How shall not the ministration of the Spirit, which abideth, be rather glorious
&Gloria
R. How shall not the ministration of the Spirit, which abideth, be rather glorious

[Lectio7]
Evangélium szent Máté Apostol kõnyvébõl
!Matt 17:1-9
Abban az idõben Jézus maga mellé vette Pétert, Jakabot és testvérét, Jánost, s fölment külön velük egy magas hegyre. Ott elváltozott elõttük. És így tovább.
_
Homily by St John Chrysostom, (Patriarch of Constantinople.)
!57 th on Matthew.
Since the Lord had spoken much concerning dangers, much concerning His Own sufferings, much concerning death, and the killing of His disciples, and had laid upon them many hard and grievous things, and since all these were in this present life, and already hanging over them, whereas the good things were matter for hope and waiting as, for example, that whosoever should lose his life for His sake should find it, for that the Son of Man should come in the glory of His Father, and reward every man according to his works. (Matth. xvi. 25, 27.) Therefore, to assure them by their own eyes, and show them what the glory is wherein He will come, He manifested and unveiled it to them, as far as in this life they were able to grasp it, lest they and especially Peter should grieve over their own deaths, or the death of their Lord.

[Responsory7]
R. God hath called us with an holy calling, according to His own grace, which is now made manifest
* By the appearing of our Saviour Jesus Christ.
V. Who hath abolished death, and brought life and immortality to light.
R. By the appearing of our Saviour Jesus Christ.

[Lectio8]
Behold what He doth, when He treateth of heaven and hell. Where He saith Whosoever will save his life shall lose it, and whosoever will lose his life for My sake shall find it. And again He shall reward every man according to his works in these words He pointeth at heaven and hell. But although He speaketh concerning both, He giveth a glimpse of heaven only and not of hell. To see hell would have profited the brutish and stupid, but His disciples were upright and clear-sighted, and therefore for them it was enough to be strengthened by the better things. This was what suited Him the best. Yet He left not the other altogether undone. Sometimes He set the horrors of hell, as it were, before the eyes, as for instance in the parable of the rich man and Lazarus, and that of him who was fain to wring the hundred pence from his fellow-servant.

[Responsory8]
R. God, Who commanded the light to shine out of darkness, hath shined in our hearts,
* To give the light of the knowledge of the glory of God, in the Face of Jesus Christ.
V. Unto the upright there ariseth light in the darkness he is gracious and full of compassion, and righteous.
R. To give the light of the knowledge of the glory of God, in the Face of Jesus Christ.
&Gloria
R. To give the light of the knowledge of the glory of God, in the Face of Jesus Christ.

[Lectio93]
!For S. Systus II Papa, Felicissimus and Agapitus martyrs
Xystus II. was an Athenian, who, from a philosopher, became a disciple of Christ. In the persecution under Valerian he was accused of openly preaching Christ, and was seized and haled to the temple of Mars, where he was given the choice of death or offering sacrifice to the idol. He firmly refused to commit that wickedness, and as he was being led away to seal his testimony, holy Lawrence ran up to him and in his grief said to him Father, whither goest thou without thy son Holy Priest, dost thou fare hence without a Deacon Xystus answered him I am not leaving thee, my son there awaiteth thee for Christ's truth a sterner wrestling than mine yet three days, and thou shalt follow me, the Deacon behind the Priest and in the meanwhile, if thou hast anything in~
the treasury, give it to the poor. Xystus was accordingly slain upon that day, and with him the Deacons Felicissimus and Agapitus, and the Subdeacons Januarius, Magnus, Vincent, and Stephen. He was buried in the cemetery of Callistus, and they in the cemetery of Praetextatus upon the 6th day of August, (in the year of our Lord 258.) He sat (in the throne of Peter) eleven months and twelve days. During that time he held one ordination in the month of December, wherein he made four Priests, seven Deacons, and two Bishops.
&teDeum

[Lectio9]
Tu vero Matthaei philosophiam considera, qui non celavit nomina eorum qui praepositi fuerant. Quod et Joannes saepius facit, cum eximias Petri laudes verissime ac diligentissime describat. Nullum enim in hoc Apostolorum consortio livor, aut inanis gloria locum habebat. Primos igitur Apostolorum seorsum assumpsit Quamobrem eos solos accepit? Quia excellentiores ceteris videlicet erant. Cur autem non illico, sed post sex dies hoc fecit? Ne ceteri scilicet discipuli seu homines moverentur: qua de re nec eos nominavit, quos accepturus erat.
&teDeum

[Ant Laudes]
Jesus took Peter, * and James, and John his brother, and brought them up into an high mountain apart and was transfigured before them.
His Face did shine * as the sun, and His raiment exceeding white as snow. Alleluia.
And, behold, * there appeared unto them Moses and Elias, talking with Jesus.
Then answered Peter, * and said unto Jesus Lord, it is good for us to be here.
While he yet spake, * behold, a bright cloud overshadowed them.

[Capitulum Laudes]
!Phil 3:20-21
v. A mi polgárságunk azonban a mennyben van. Onnan várjuk az Üdvözítõt is, Urunkat, Jézus Krisztust. Õ azzal az erõvel, amellyel mindent hatalma alá vethet, átalakítja gyarló testünket, és hasonlóvá teszi megdicsõült testéhez.
$Deo gratias

[Hymnus Laudes]
Lelkünk szép fénye, Jézusunk,
Szívünk szerelmes vígasza,
Ki bûn ködét eloszlatod,
S édességgel árasztasz el.
_
Mily boldog, kit meglátogatsz,
Atyádnak jobbján trónoló,
Hazánknak édes fénye Te,
Kit ember-érzék el nem ér.
_
Atyád fényének fénye vagy,
Megfoghatatlan szeretet!
Jelenléted árassza át
Szerelmed bôségét reánk.
_
Áldunk Jézus, ki a kicsik
Elôtt jelented meg magad,
S az Atyát és Szentlelket is
Most és örök idôkön át.
Ámen.

[Versum 2]
V. A crown of gold upon his head.
R. Wherein was engraved Holiness, glory, and honour.

[Ant 2]
And, behold, a voice out of the cloud, * which said This is My beloved Son, in Whom I am well pleased hear ye Him. Alleluia.

[Lectio Prima]
!Rev 21:10-11; 21:23
v. És lélekben elvitt egy nagy magas hegyre, s ott megmutatta nekem a mennybõl, az Istentõl alászállt szent várost, Jeruzsálemet. Isten dicsõségét sugározta. És világossága pedig a Bárány.

[Capitulum Tertia]
!Phil 3:20-21
v. A mi polgárságunk azonban a mennyben van. Onnan várjuk az Üdvözítõt is, Urunkat, Jézus Krisztust. Õ azzal az erõvel, amellyel mindent hatalma alá vethet, átalakítja gyarló testünket, és hasonlóvá teszi megdicsõült testéhez.
$Deo gratias

[Responsory Tertia]
R.br. Thou wast manifested in thy glory in the Presence of the Lord. * Alleluia, Alleluia.
R. Thou wast manifested in thy glory in the Presence of the Lord. * Alleluia, Alleluia.
V. Wherefore the Lord hath clothed thee with majesty.
R. Alleluia, Alleluia.
&Gloria
R. Thou wast manifested in thy glory in the Presence of the Lord. Alleluia, Alleluia.
_
V. Thou hast crowned him with glory and honour, O Lord Alleluia.
R. And madest him to have dominion over the works of thy hands. Alleluia.

[Capitulum Sexta]
!2 Cor 3:18
v. Mi pedig mindnyájan, akik födetlen arccal tükrözzük vissza az Úr dicsõségét, a dicsõségben fokról fokra hozzá hasonlóvá változunk át, az Úr Lelke által.
$Deo gratias

[Responsory Sexta]
R.br. Thou hast crowned him with glory and honour, O Lord * Alleluia, Alleluia.
R. Thou hast crowned him with glory and honour, O Lord * Alleluia, Alleluia.
V. And madest him to have dominion over the works of thy hands.
R. Alleluia, Alleluia.
&Gloria
R. Thou hast crowned him with glory and honour, O Lord Alleluia, Alleluia.
_
V. His glory is great in thy salvation Alleluia.
R. Honour and great majesty shalt Thou lay upon him. Alleluia.

[Capitulum Nona]
!Rev 21:10-11; 21:23
v. És lélekben elvitt egy nagy magas hegyre, s ott megmutatta nekem a mennybõl, az Istentõl alászállt szent várost, Jeruzsálemet. Isten dicsõségét sugározta. És világossága pedig a Bárány.
$Deo gratias

[Responsory Nona]
R.br. His glory is great in thy salvation * Alleluia, Alleluia.
R. His glory is great in thy salvation * Alleluia, Alleluia.
V. Honour and great majesty shalt Thou lay upon him.
R. Alleluia, Alleluia.
&Gloria
R. His glory is great in thy salvation * Alleluia, Alleluia.
_
V. A crown of gold upon his head Alleluia.
R. Wherein was engraved Holiness, glory, and honour Alleluia.

[Ant 3]
And when the disciples heard it, they fell on their face, * and were sore afraid and Jesus came and touched them, and said unto them Arise, and be not afraid. Alleluia.
