[Officium]
Připomínka sv. Pavla Apoštola

[Ant Vespera]
Já jsem zasadil, * Apollo zaléval, Bůh však dával vzrůst, alleluja.
Rád se budu chlubit * ve svých slabostech, aby ve mě přebývala síla Kristova.
Milost Boží * ve mě nepřebývala zbytečně, avšak jeho milost ve mě navždy zůstane.
V Damašku, * místodržitel lidu u krále Arety mě chtěl zajmout; bratři mě však přes zeď spustili v koši, a tak jsem unikl jeho rukám ve jménu Páně.
Třikrát jsem byl bit holemi, * jednou kamenován, a třikrát jsem přežil ztroskotání lodi pro jméno Kristovo.

[Versum 1]
V. Ty jsi nádoba vyvolená, svatý Pavle Apoštole.
R. Abys kázal pravdu po celém světě.

[Ant 1]
Svatý Pavle Apoštole, * kazateli pravdy a učiteli Národů, přimlouvej se za nás u Boha, který si tě vyvolil.

[Oratio]
Bože, jenž jsi veliké množství <i>pohanských</i> Národů vzdělal kázáním svatého Pavla Apoštola; dej nám, prosíme, abychom, když slavíme jeho narození <i>pro nebe</i>, pocítili i jeho přímluvy u tebe.
$Per Dominum
_
@Sancti/01-25:Commemoratio4

[Hymnus Matutinum]
v. Náš učiteli, Pavle, mravy nauč nás,
A mysl naši do nebes rač povznésti,
Dokud plnou nedostanem' dokonalost,
Tím, že se zbavíme toho, co nás vede pryč.
_
Budiž Trojici věkověčná oslava,
Čest, moc a sláva, také veselý jásot;
V jednotě, v níž zůstává všechna vláda,
Od této chvíle, až na veškeré věky.
Amen.

[Ant Matutinum]
He That wrought effectually * in Peter to the Apostleship, the Same was mighty in me toward the Gentiles, and they perceived the grace that was given unto me of the Lord Christ.;;18
I know Whom I have believed, * and am persuaded that He is able to keep that which I have committed unto Him against that day, as a righteous Judge.;;33
To me to live is Christ, * and to die is gain: God forbid that I should glory, save in the cross of our Lord Jesus Christ.;;44
V. Their sound hath gone forth into all the earth.
R. And their words unto the ends of the world.
O Holy Apostle Paul, * thou art a chosen vessel unto God, to preach the Gospel throughout the whole world.;;46
Paul is made one of the chiefest among the Saints, * and a chosen vessel; verily he is worthy to be glorified, for he was made worthy to sit upon one of the twelve thrones.;;60
I have fought a good fight, * I have finished my course, I have kept the faith.;;63
V. Thou shalt make them princes over all the earth.
R. They shall remember thy name, O Lord.
Saul, who also is called Paul, * was made a great preacher, and, being of God increased the more in strength, he confounded the Jews.;;74
Lest I should be exalted * above measure through the greatness of the revelations, there was given to me a thorn in the flesh, the messenger of Satan to buffet me; for this thing I besought the Lord thrice, that it might depart from me and the Lord said unto me: Paul, My grace is sufficient for thee.;;96
There is laid up for me * a crown of righteousness, which the Lord, the righteous Judge, shall give me at that day.;;98
V. Thy friends, O Lord, are made exceedingly honourable:
R. Their principality is exceedingly strengthened.

[Lectio1]
Lesson from the Acts of the Apostles
!Acts 13:1-4
1 Now there were in the church which was at Antioch, prophets and doctors, among whom was Barnabas, and Simon who was called Niger, and Lucius of Cyrene, and Manahen, who was the foster brother of Herod the tetrarch, and Saul.
2 And as they were ministering to the Lord, and fasting, the Holy Ghost said to them: Separate me Saul and Barnabas, for the work whereunto I have taken them.
3 Then they, fasting and praying, and imposing their hands upon them, sent them away.
4 So they being sent by the Holy Ghost, went to Seleucia: and from thence they sailed to Cyprus.

[Responsory1]
R. He That wrought effectually in Peter to the Apostleship, the Same was mighty in me toward the Gentiles,
* And they perceived the grace that was given unto me of the Lord Christ.
V. The grace of God which was bestowed upon me was not in vain, but His grace abideth ever in me.
R. And they perceived the grace that was given unto me of the Lord Christ.

[Lectio2]
!Acts 13:5-8
5 And when they were come to Salamina, they preached the word of God in the synagogues of the Jews. And they had John also in the ministry.
6 And when they had gone through the whole island, as far as Paphos, they found a certain man, a magician, a false prophet, a Jew, whose name was Bar-jesu:
7 Who was with the proconsul Sergius Paulus, a prudent man. He sending for Barnabas and Saul, desired to hear the word of God.
8 But Elymas the magician (for so his name is interpreted) withstood them, seeking to turn away the proconsul from the faith.

[Responsory2]
R. I have fought a good fight, I have finished my course, I have kept the faith;
* Henceforth there is laid up for me a crown of righteousness.
V. I know Whom I have believed, and am persuaded that He is able to keep that which I have committed unto Him against that day.
R. Henceforth there is laid up for me a crown of righteousness.

[Lectio3]
!Acts 13:9-13
9 Then Saul, otherwise Paul, filled with the Holy Ghost, looking upon him,
10 Said: O full of all guile, and of all deceit, child of the devil, enemy of all justice, thou ceasest not to pervert the right ways of the Lord.
11 And now behold, the hand of the Lord is upon thee, and thou shalt be blind, not seeing the sun for a time. And immediately there fell a mist and darkness upon him, and going about, he sought some one to lead him by the hand.
12 Then the proconsul, when he had seen what was done, believed, admiring at the doctrine of the Lord.
13 Now when Paul and they that were with him had sailed from Paphos, they came to Perge in Pamphylia. And John departing from them, returned to Jerusalem.

[Responsory3]
R. There is laid up for me a crown of righteousness:
* Which the Lord, the righteous Judge, shall give me at that day.
V. I know Whom I have believed, and am persuaded that He is able to keep that which I have committed unto Him against that day.
R. Which the Lord, the righteous Judge, shall give me at that day.
&Gloria
R. Which the Lord, the righteous Judge, shall give me at that day.

[Lectio4]
From the Book of St. Augustine, Bishop of Hippo, touching Grace and Free-will.
!Chapter 6
The Apostle Paul was a man, who, when we first hear of him, had not only no merits, but a great many demerits. That man received the grace of God, Who returneth good for evil, and let us see in what sort of language, when the hour of his last sufferings was at hand, he wrote to Timothy. He saith: I am now ready to be offered, and the time of my departure is at hand. I have fought a good fight, I have finished my course, I have kept the faith. (2 Tim. iii. 6.) Here he counteth his merits, whereon a crown was immediately to follow, just as grace had followed immediately on his demerits. Listen to what cometh next Henceforth there is laid up for me a crown of righteousness, which the Lord, the righteous Judge, shall give me at that day. Unto whom would the Lord give a crown as a righteous Judge, if He had not first given grace, as a merciful Father And how would that crown be a crown of righteousness, if there had not first come grace which justifieth the ungodly How could a reward have been earned unless the power to earn had first been given unearned?

[Responsory4]
R. O Holy Apostle Paul, thou art a chosen vessel unto God, to preach the Gospel throughout the whole world
* Through whom all nations have known the grace of God.
V. Pray for us to God Who hath chosen thee.
R. Through whom all nations have known the grace of God.

[Lectio5]
Let us now consider what were the merits of the Apostle Paul, which entitled him to look for a crown of righteousness from the Lord, the righteous Judge, and let us see whether these merits sprang from himself or were God's gifts to him. He saith I have fought a good fight, I have finished my course, I have kept the faith. To begin with, these good works would have been nothing worth, unless they had come from good thoughts. Listen therefore to what this same Paul saith concerning good thoughts. He writeth to the Corinthians: Not that we are sufficient of ourselves to think anything, as of ourselves but our sufficiency 
is of God. (2 Cor. iii. 5.) Now let us take point by point.

[Responsory5]
R. By the grace of God I am what I am.
* And His grace which was bestowed upon me was not in vain, but abideth ever in me.
V. He that wrought effectually in Peter to the Apostleship, the Same was mighty in me toward the Gentiles.
R. And His grace which was bestowed upon me was not in vain, but abideth ever in me.

[Lectio6]
He saith: I have fought a good fight. I should like to know in whose strength he fought; in his own strength or in strength given him from above? God forbid that this great teacher should be supposed not to have known the Law of his God, Who saith in the Book of Deuteronomy: Say not in thine heart: My power and the might of mine hand hath gotten me this wealth. But thou shalt remember the Lord thy God, for it is He That giveth thee power to get wealth. (viii. 17, 18.) And, again, what is the good of a fight except it end in victory? And who is he that giveth victory save He of Whom this very same Paul saith: Thanks be to God, Which giveth us the victory, through our Lord Jesus Christ! (1 Cor. xv. 57.)

[Responsory6]
R. Saul, who also is called Paul, was made a great preacher
* And being of God increased the more in strength, he confounded the Jews.
V. Proving that This is very Christ, the Son of God.
R. And being of God increased the more in strength, he confounded the Jews.
&Gloria
R. And being of God increased the more in strength, he confounded the Jews.

[Lectio94]
From the Book of St. Augustine, Bishop of Hippo, touching Grace and Free-will.
!Chapter 6
The Apostle Paul was a man, who, when we first hear of him, had not only no merits, but a great many demerits. That man received the grace of God, Who returneth good for evil, and let us see in what sort of language, when the hour of his last sufferings was at hand, he wrote to Timothy. He saith: I am now ready to be offered, and the time of my departure is at hand. I have fought a good fight, I have finished my course, I have kept the faith. (2 Tim. iii. 6.) Here he counteth his merits, whereon a crown was immediately to follow, just as grace had followed immediately on his demerits. Listen to what cometh next: Henceforth there is laid up for me a crown of righteousness, which the Lord, the righteous Judge, shall give me at that day. Unto whom would the Lord give a crown as a righteous Judge, if He had not first given grace, as a merciful Father? And how would that crown be a crown of righteousness, if there had not first come grace which justifieth the ungodly? How could a reward have been earned unless the power to earn had first been given unearned?
&teDeum

[Lectio7]
From the Holy Gospel according to Matthew
!Matt 10:16-22
At that time, Jesus said unto His disciples: Behold, I send you forth as sheep in the midst of wolves. And so on.
_
Homily by St. John Chrysostom, Patriarch of Constantinople.
!34 on Matthew.
It is as though He said Let not your heart be troubled although when I send you forth as sheep in the midst of wolves, I bid you be harmless as doves for, albeit, if I would, I could now make things otherwise, and suffer not that ye should have to bear anything grievous, neither be at the mercy of the wolves as are other sheep, but on the contrary, could make you more dreadful to the lions than the lions to you nevertheless, thus must it needs be, and yourselves it will make more glorious, and My power it will wholly show forth. For thus was it that afterwards the Same Lord said unto Paul: My grace is sufficient for thee, for My strength is made perfect in weakness. (2 Cor. xii. 9.) It is I that have made you to be what ye are.

[Responsory7]
R. O Holy Apostle Paul, Preacher of the truth, and teacher of the Gentiles,
* Pray for us to God, Who hath chosen thee, that we may be made worthy of the grace of God.
V. O Holy Apostle Paul, thou art a chosen vessel unto God, and a Preacher of the truth.
R. Pray for us to God Who hath chosen thee, that we may be made worthy of the grace of God.

[Lectio8]
But let us look what wisdom it is which the Lord requireth. It is the wisdom of the serpent. The serpent draweth all the rest of his body after his head, and it is no matter to him if his body be cut through, so long as he keepeth his head unharmed. Thus, O Christian, is it with thee. It is no matter to thee that for thy faith's sake thou shouldest lose all things else money, or body, or, if need be, life itself. thy faith is thy head, and the root of thy being hold fast to that, and, as long as thou hast that, although thou shouldest lose all things else, it will only be to receive them back again with interest an hundredfold. And thus it is that the Lord biddeth us, not to be single-hearted only, nor wise only, but both together, that therefrom we may be strong.

[Responsory8]
R. In Damascus the governor under Aretas the king was desirous to apprehend me
* And by the brethren in a basket was I let down by the wall, and so escaped I his hands, in the name of the Lord.
V. The God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ knoweth that I lie not.
R. And by the brethren in a basket was I let down by the wall.
&Gloria
R. And by the brethren in a basket was I let down by the wall.

[Lectio9]
If thou wilt see how these words were brought to the proof in very deed, read the Book of the Acts of the Apostles. There thou wilt see how that oftentimes the Jewish people rose against the Apostles and gnashed on them with their teeth, but they, with dove-like guilelessness, gave them smooth answers, and turned away their wrath, and quenched their fury, and stopped their onset. When the Jews said Did not we straitly command you, that ye should not teach in this Name? although the Apostles could have worked any miracles they chose, yet they neither said nor did anything sharp, but answered them with all meekness Whether it be right in the sight of God to hearken unto you more than unto God, judge ye. (Acts v. 28 iv. 19.) Here thou hast the harmlessness of doves listen now to the wisdom of serpents We cannot but speak the things which we have seen and heard. (20.)
&teDeum

[Ant Laudes] (rubrica cisterciensis)
Já jsem zasadil, * Apollo zaléval, Bůh však dával vzrůst, alleluja.
Milost Boží * ve mě nepřebývala zbytečně, avšak jeho milost ve mě navždy zůstane.
Třikrát jsem byl bit holemi, * jednou kamenován, a třikrát jsem přežil ztroskotání lodi pro jméno Kristovo.
V Damašku, * místodržitel lidu u krále Arety mě chtěl zajmout; bratři mě však přes zeď spustili v koši, a tak jsem unikl jeho rukám ve jménu Páně.
Rád se budu chlubit * ve svých slabostech, aby ve mě přebývala síla Kristova.

[Capitulum Laudes]
!2 Tim 4:7-8
v. Dobrý boj jsem bojoval, svůj běh jsem skončil, víru jsem uchoval. Teď mě už jen čeká věnec spravedlnosti, který mi v onen den předá Pán, spravedlivý Soudce. 
$Deo gratias

[Ant 2]
Thus saith the Lord: * Ye, which have followed Me, shall sit upon twelve thrones, judging the twelve tribes of Israel.

[Ant 2] (rubrica cisterciensis)
Mé Evangelium, * které je zvěstováno, není ode mě, ani jsem je nepřijal od žádného člověka, nýbrž skrze zjevení našeho Pána Ježíše Krista.

[Lectio Prima]
!1 Kor 15:9-10
v. Ano, já jsem nejnepatrnější z Apoštolů; nejsem ani hoden, abych byl nazýván Apoštolem, protože jsem pronásledoval Boží církev. Ale Boží milostí jsem to, co jsem, a jeho milost, kterou mi udělil, nezůstala ležet ladem.

[Capitulum Sexta]
!2 Kor 12:7-9
v. Abych se pro vznešenost těch zjevení nepyšnil, byl mi dán do těla osten, posel to satanův, aby mi dával pohlavky. Kvůli tomu jsem třikrát prosil Pána, aby mě toho zbavil. Ale on mi řekl: „Stačí ti moje milost.“
$Deo gratias
