[Lectio4]
Hear the word of the Lord, ye rulers of Sodom, give ear to the law of our God, ye people of Gomorrha. To what purpose do you offer me the multitude of your victims, saith the Lord? I am full, I desire not holocausts of rams, and fat of fatlings, and blood of calves, and lambs, and buck goats.

[Responsory4]
R. Receive, O Virgin Mary, receive the word of the Lord, which is sent thee by His Angel; thou shalt conceive, and shalt bring forth God and Man together.
* And thou shalt be called blessed among all women.
V. Thou shalt bring forth a son, and remain a maiden undefiled thou shalt conceive and be a Mother, still Virgin unspotted.
R. And thou shalt be called blessed among all women.

[Lectio8]
And, although this is difficult to maintain in this life, yet the attempt can frequently be renewed, in order that we may the oftener and longer be occupied with spiritual rather than fleshly cares; and by our spending ever greater portions of our time on higher cares, even our temporal actions may end in gaining the incorruptible riches.

[Responsory8]
R. Sing, O heavens; and be joyful, O earth; and break forth into singing, O mountains, for our Lord will come;
* And will have mercy on His afflicted.
V. In His days shall righteousness flourish and abundance of peace.
R. And will have mercy upon His afflicted.

[Responsory11]
R. Behold, the days come, saith the Lord, that I will raise unto David a righteous Branch; and a King shall reign in wisdom and shall execute judgment and justice in the earth:
* And this is His name whereby He shall be called: The Lord our Righteous one.
V. In His days Judah shall be saved, and Israel shall dwell safely.
R. And this is His name whereby He shall be called: The Lord our Righteous one.

[Lectio12]
There has not yet arisen any new disturbance of the sea and of the waves. But since many prophecies have already been fulfulled, there is no doubt that the few which remain will also follow, for the accomplishment of that which has gone before is our certitude of that which is to follow. For this reason, dearest brethren, that your minds may be alert and zealous for your safety, lest, feeling secure, they remain inactive, and on account of ignorance they become weak. But in all things let fear, on the one hand, rouse them up, and on the other hand, let solicitude for doing good strengthen them.

[Responsory12]
R. There shall no strangers pass through Jerusalem any more
* For in that day the mountains shall drop down sweet wine, and the hills shall flow with milk and honey, saith the Lord.
V. God shall come from Lebanon, and the Holy One from the thick and shady mountain.
R. For in that day the mountains shall drop down sweet wine, and the hills shall flow with milk and honey, saith the Lord.

[LectioE]
Continuation ++ of the Holy Gospel according to Luke
!Luke 21:25-33
At that time, Jesus said to His disciples: There will be signs in the sun and~
moon and stars, and upon the earth distress of nations bewildered by the roaring~
of sea and waves; men fainting for fear and for expectation of the things that~
are coming on the world; for the powers of heaven will be shaken. And then they~
will see the son of Man coming upon a cloud with great power and majesty. but~
when these things begin to come to pass, look up, and lift up your heads,~
because your redemption is at hand. And He spoke to them a parable. Behold the~
fig tree, and all the trees. When they now put forth their buds, you know that~
summer is near. Even so, when you see these things coming to pass, know that the~
kingdom of God is near. Amen I say to you, this generation will not pass away~
till all things have been accomplished. Heaven and earth will pass away, but My~
words will not pass away.
