[Responsory4]
R. Keep me, as the apple of thy eye
* Protect me under the shadow of thy wings.
V. Shew forth thy wonderful mercies; thou who savest them that trust in thee.
R. Protect me under the shadow of thy wings.

[Responsory8]
R. Shew, O Lord, thy ways to me, and teach me thy paths. Direct me in thy truth, and teach me;
* For thou art God my Saviour; and on thee have I waited all the day long.
V. The sins of my youth and my ignorances do not remember, O Lord.
R. For thou art God my Saviour; and on thee have I waited all the day long.

[Responsory10]
R. You have afflicted us for our sins, every day we expect our end with tears; let the sorrows of our heart come before you O Lord
* That you may deliver us from the evils that have come upon us
V. O Lord God of Israel, hear our prayers, hearken unto the sorrows of our heart
R. That you may deliver us from the ills that are come upon us

[Responsory11]
R. My sins, O Lord, are fixed in me, like arrows, but before they caused wounds in me,
* Heal me, O God, with the medicine of repentance.
V. For I know my iniquity, * and my sin is always before me.
R. Heal me, O God, with the medicine of repentance.

[LectioE]
v. Continuation of the Holy Gospel according to John
!John 2:1-11
2:1 AND the third day, there was a marriage in Cana of Galilee: and the mother of Jesus was there.
2:2 And Jesus also was invited, and his disciples, to the marriage.
2:3 And the wine failing, the mother of Jesus saith to him: They have no wine.
2:4 And Jesus saith to her: Woman, what is that to me and to thee? my hour is not yet come.
2:5 His mother saith to the waiters: Whatsoever he shall say to you, do ye.
2:6 Now there were set there six waterpots of stone, according to the manner of the purifying of the Jews, containing two or three measures apiece.
2:7 Jesus saith to them: Fill the waterpots with water. And they filled them up to the brim.
2:8 And Jesus saith to them: Draw out now, and carry to the chief steward of the feast. And they carried it.
2:9 And when the chief steward had tasted the water made wine, and knew not whence it was, but the waiters knew who had drawn the water; the chief steward calleth the bridegroom,
2:10 And saith to him: Every man at first setteth forth good wine, and when men have well drunk, then that which is worse. But thou hast kept the good wine until now.
2:11 This beginning of miracles did Jesus in Cana of Galilee; and manifested his glory, and his disciples believed in him.
$Te decet
