[LectioE]
v. Continuation of the Holy Gospel according to John
!John 7:14-31
7:14 Now about the midst of the feast, Jesus went up into the temple, and taught.
7:15 And the Jews wondered, saying: How doth this man know letters, having never learned?
7:16 Jesus answered them, and said: My doctrine is not mine, but his that sent me.
7:17 If any man do the will of him; he shall know of the doctrine, whether it be of God, or whether I speak of myself.
7:18 He that speaketh of himself, seeketh his own glory: but he that seeketh the glory of him that sent him, he is true, and there is no injustice in him.
7:19 Did Moses not give you the law, and yet none of you keepeth the law?
7:20 Why seek you to kill me? The multitude answered, and said: Thou hast a devil; who seeketh to kill thee?
7:21 Jesus answered, and said to them: One work I have done; and you all wonder:
7:22 Therefore, Moses gave you circumcision (not because it is of Moses, but of the fathers;) and on the sabbath day you circumcise a man.
7:23 If a man receive circumcision on the sabbath day, that the law of Moses may not be broken; are you angry at me because I have healed the whole man on the sabbath day?
7:24 Judge not according to the appearance, but judge just judgment.
7:25 Some therefore of Jerusalem said: Is not this he whom they seek to kill?
7:26 And behold, he speaketh openly, and they say nothing to him. Have the rulers known for a truth, that this is the Christ?
7:27 But we know this man, whence he is: but when the Christ cometh, no man knoweth whence he is.
7:28 Jesus therefore cried out in the temple, teaching, and saying: You both know me, and you know whence I am: and I am not come of myself; but he that sent me, is true, whom you know not.
7:29 I know him, because I am from him, and he hath sent me.
7:30 They sought therefore to apprehend him: and no man laid hands on him, because his hour was not yet come.
7:31 But of the people many believed in him, and said: When the Christ cometh, shall he do more miracles, than these which this man doth?
$Te decet
