[LectioE]
v. Continuation of the Holy Gospel according to John
!John 4:5-42
4:5 He cometh therefore to a city of Samaria, which is called Sichar, near the land which Jacob gave to his son Joseph.
4:6 Now Jacob's well was there. Jesus therefore being wearied with his journey, sat thus on the well. It was about the sixth hour.
4:7 There cometh a woman of Samaria, to draw water. Jesus saith to her: Give me to drink.
4:8 For his disciples were gone into the city to buy meats.
4:9 Then that Samaritan woman saith to him: How dost thou, being a Jew, ask of me to drink, who am a Samaritan woman? For the Jews do not communicate with the Samaritans.
4:10 Jesus answered, and said to her: If thou didst know the gift of God, and who he is that saith to thee, Give me to drink; thou perhaps wouldst have asked of him, and he would have given thee living water.
4:11 The woman saith to him: Sir, thou hast nothing wherein to draw, and the well is deep; from whence then hast thou living water?
4:12 Art thou greater than our father Jacob, who gave us the well, and drank thereof himself, and his children, and his cattle?
4:13 Jesus answered, and said to her: Whosoever drinketh of this water, shall thirst again; but he that shall drink of the water that I will give him, shall not thirst for ever:
4:14 But the water that I will give him, shall become in him a fountain of water, springing up into life everlasting.
4:15 The woman saith to him: Sir, give me this water, that I may not thirst, nor come hither to draw.
4:16 Jesus saith to her: Go, call thy husband, and come hither. 17 The woman answered, and said: I have no husband. Jesus said to her: Thou hast said well, I have no husband:
4:18 For thou hast had five husbands: and he whom thou now hast, is not thy husband. This thou hast said truly.
4:19 The woman saith to him: Sir, I perceive that thou art a prophet.
4:20 Our fathers adored on this mountain, and you say, that at Jerusalem is the place where men must adore.
4:21 Jesus saith to her: Woman, believe me, that the hour cometh, when you shall neither on this mountain, not in Jerusalem, adore the Father.
4:22 You adore that which you know not: we adore that which we know; for salvation is of the Jews.
4:23 But the hour cometh, and now is, when the true adorers shall adore the Father in spirit and in truth. For the Father also seeketh such to adore him.
4:24 God is a spirit; and they that adore him, must adore him in spirit and in truth.
4:25 The woman saith to him: I know that the Messias cometh (who is called Christ); therefore, when he is come, he will tell us all things.
4:26 Jesus saith to her: I am he, who am speaking with thee.
4:27 And immediately his disciples came; and they wondered that he talked with the woman. Yet no man said: What seekest thou? or, why talkest thou with her?
4:28 The woman therefore left her waterpot, and went her way into the city, and saith to the men there:
4:29 Come, and see a man who has told me all things whatsoever I have done. Is not he the Christ?
4:30 They went therefore out of the city, and came unto him.
4:31 In the mean time the disciples prayed him, saying: Rabbi, eat.
4:32 But he said to them: I have meat to eat, which you know not.
4:33 The disciples therefore said one to another: Hath any man brought him to eat?
4:34 Jesus saith to them: My meat is to do the will of him that sent me, that I may perfect his work.
4:35 Do you not say, There are yet four months, and then the harvest cometh? Behold, I say to you, lift up your eyes, and see the countries; for they are white already to harvest.
4:36 And he that reapeth receiveth wages, and gathereth fruit unto life everlasting: that both he that soweth, and he that reapeth, may rejoice together.
4:37 For in this is the saying true: That it is one man that soweth, and it is another that reapeth.
4:38 I have sent you to reap that in which you did not labour: others have laboured, and you have entered into their labours.
4:39 Now of that city many of the Samaritans believed in him, for the word of the woman giving testimony: He told me all things whatsoever I have done.
4:40 So when the Samaritans were come to him, they desired that he would tarry there. And he abode there two days.
4:41 And many more believed in him because of his own word.
4:42 And they said to the woman: We now believe, not for thy saying: for we ourselves have heard him, and know that this is indeed the Saviour of the world.
$Te decet
