[Rank]
S. Johannis Vianney Confessoris;;Duplex;;3;;vide C5

[Rule]
vide C5;mtv
9 lectiones

[Oratio]
Almighty and merciful God, who didst make St John Mary to be wonderful in pastoral zeal and unchanging love for prayer and penance, grant we beseech thee, that by his example and intercession we may be able to gain the souls of our brethren in Christ, and with them to arrive at the glory of eternity
$Per eumdem

[Commemoratio 1]
!Commemoratio S. Romanae Maryris
@Commune/C2:Oratio proper
$Oremus
Graciously hear us, we beseech thee, O Almighty God, and, at the petition of thy blessed Martyr, Romanus be mercifully pleased to deliver us from all things which may hurt our bodies, and from all evil thoughts which may defile our souls.
$Per Dominum

[Lectio Vigilia]
!Commemoratio Vigilia St Laurentii
@Sancti/08-09t:Lectio1              

[Lectio4]
Joannes Mária Vianney, in pago Dardilly, dioecosis Lugdunesis, piis ruricolis ortus, ab infantia plura dedit sanctitatis indicia. Cum octennis oves custodiret, modo puerulos, ad imaginem deiparae genuflexos, Rosarium verbo et examplo edocere, modo sorori vel alteri commisso grege, secretiorem lucum petere sociebat, quo expeditior ante simulacrum Virginis orationi vacaret. Pauperum amantissimus, eos turmatim in patris domum deducere et omnimodo adjuvare in deliciis habebat.Litteris imbuendus, parocho vici Ecully traditus est; sed ut erat tardioris ingenii, in studiis fere insuperabiles expertus est difficultates. Jejunio et oratione divinam opem imploravit, et facilitatem discendi rogaturus, tumulum sancti Francisci Regis, stipem quaeritans, adivit. Theologiae curriculo operose confecto, satis idoneus inventus est, qui sacris initiaretur.

[Lectio5]
In pago Ecully, praeeunte parocho, cujus vicarius renuntiatus fuerat, potiores pastoralis perfectionis gradus totis viribus attingere contendit. Elapso triennio, in viculum Ars, qui non ita multo post diloecesi Bellicensi adscriptus est, quasi Angelus de caelo fuit missus et omnino squalentis ac desertae suae paroeciae faciem florentissime renovavit. In conscientiis judicandis ac moderandis ad plurimas horas quotidie assiduus, frequentem Eucharistiae usum invexit, pias sodalitates instauravit: mirum autem in modum teneram in Immaculatam Virginem animis pietatem indidit. Ratus vero pastoris esse, flagitia concreditae plebis expiare, nec orationibus, nec vigiliis, macerationibus et continuis jejuniis parcebat. Tantam viri Dei virtutem cum Satan ferre non posset, eum vexationibus primum, dein aperto certamine adortus est; sed : atrocissimas afflictiones patienter tolerabat Joannes : Mária.

[Lectio6]
Invitabatur saepius a curionibus vicinis ut, Missionariorum more, animarum saluti, qua concionando, qua confessiones excipiendo consuleret et singulis praesto semper erat. Studio gloriae Dei incensus, effecit, ut pia Missionum exercitia in amplius centum paroeciis, constitute perpetuo censu,~
instituerentur. Inter hac, Deo servum suum miraculis et charismatibus illustrante, orta est Celebris illa peregrinatio, qua, per vicennium centum fere millia hominum cujusque ordinis et aetatis, quotannis Ars confluxerint non solum e Galliae et Europae, sed etiam Americae dissitis provinciis. Laboribus potius quam senio consumptus, praenuntiato suae mortis die, in osculo Domini quievit, die quarta Augusti, anno millesimo octingentesimo quinquagesimo nono, annos natus tres ac septuaginta. Quem multis clarum miraculis, Pius decimus inter beatos, Pius vero undecimus inter sanctos Caelites anno sacro adscripsit, ejusque festum ad universam Ecclesiam extendit.

[Lectio93]
!For the Vigil of S. Laurence martyr
Evangélium szent Máté Apostol kõnyvébõl
!Matt 16:24-27
Azon idõben így szólt Jézus a tanítványaihoz: Aki követni akar, tagadja meg magát, vegye keresztjét és kövessen. És így tovább.
_
Homily by Pope St Gregory (the Great.)
!32nd on the Gospels
Our Lord and Redeemer came into the world a new Man, and gave the world new commandments. For against the ways of our old life, brought and bred up in sin, He set the contrast of His new life. It was the old way, according to the knowledge of the carnal man, for every man to keep his own goods, and, if he were able to do it, to take his neighbour's goods also, and, if he were not able to take them, at least to lust after them. But the Heavenly Physician hath medicines wherewith to meet all the diseases of sin. For, even, as by the art of the physician, things hot are healed by things cold, and things cold by things hot, so doth our Lord set against sin holiness, ordaining for the lecherous purity, for the miserly munificence, for the hot-tempered meekness, and for the proud lowliness.
&teDeum

[Commemoratio 2]
!Commemoratio S. Romanae Maryris
@Commune/C2:Oratio proper
Graciously hear us, we beseech thee, O Almighty God, and, at the petition of thy blessed Martyr, Romanus be mercifully pleased to deliver us from all things which may hurt our bodies, and from all evil thoughts which may defile our souls.
$Per Dominum

[Oratio Vigilia]
Attend, O Lord, to Our supplications, and by the intercession of Thy blessed martyr, Lawrence, whose feast we anticipate, graciously bestow upon us Thy everlasting mercy.
$Per Dominum

[Lectio94]
John Mary Vianney was born of devout farming-people in the village of Dardilly in the diocese of Lyons, and gave many índications of his future sanctity. As an eight-year-old boy, keeping sheep, he would lead the other children to kneel before the image of the Mother of God, teaching them the Rosary by word and example ; and he loved to work in the fields and meditate on divine things. He was a great lover of the poor and took delight in helping them in every way. He was slow to learn ; but, after imploring God's help and working hard to complete his course in theology, he was judged fit to be ordained. Receiving an appointment as pastor, he made spiritual flowers bloom again in a parish that had been nothing but a dried-up wasteland. Busy every day hearing confessions and giving spiritual counsel, he bore patiently the most horrible attacks of Satan. He established the practice of making missions in more than an hundred parishes. The faithful came flocking to his parish, even from distant places, in a holy desire to see him ; but he did not share their high opinion of him at all, and more than once he tried to slip away. Worn out by his labours rather than by old age, he rested in the Lord at the age of seventy-three on the day he had foretold, the 4th of August, 1859. Famous for many miracles, he was enrolled among the Blessed by Pius X and among the Saints by Pius XI who, on the fiftieth anniversary of his own priesthood, appointed him the heavenly patron of all parish priests.
&teDeum
