Upon the 12th day of May, are 
_
Commemorated at Rome, upon the way to Ardea, the holy brethren Nereus and Achilles, both martyrs. They were eunuchs belonging to Flavia Domitilla, and first suffered a long exile with her in the island of Ponza for Christ's Name's sake. Afterwards they were laid under most grievous stripes. Lastly, when Minutius Rufus, the Consular, was striving by racking and fire to force them to offer pagan sacrifices, and they said that they had been baptized by the blessed Apostle Peter and could in no wise make offerings to idols, they were beheaded. By command of Pope Clement VIII. their sacred remains, along with those of Flavia Domitilla, were, upon the eve of this day, solemnly transferred from the Deaconry of St Hadrian to the old church which bears their names, where they had formerly lain buried, and which had now been restored. 
Also at Rome, upon the Aurelian Way, the holy martyr Pancras, who at fourteen years of age finished his testimony by being beheaded, in the persecution under Diocletian. 
At Rome also, [in the year 304,] the holy Denis, uncle of the said blessed Pancras. 
In Sicily, the holy Philip Argyrion, who was sent by the Roman Pontiff to that island, and turned a great part of it to Christ. His holiness is chiefly shown forth in the deliverance of them that are vexed with evil spirits. 
At Salamis, in Cyprus, [in the year 403,] the holy Epiphanius, Bishop [of that see,] who excelled in vast learning and knowledge of the Scriptures but was also a wonder for the holiness of his life, his zeal for the Catholic faith, his generosity to the poor, and the power of his mighty deeds. 
At Constantinople, [in the eighth century,] the holy Bishop Germanus, famous for his graces and teaching. He withstood the Emperor Leo the Isaurian with great faithfulness, when that Prince published his edict against the holy images. 
At Treves, [in the year 640,] the holy Modwald, Bishop [of that see.] 
In the city of St Domingo de la Calzada, [in the beginning of the twelfth century,] the holy Confessor Dominic. 
