[Rank]
S. Norberti Episc. et Confessoris;;Duplex;;3;;vide C4

[RankNewcal]
S. Norberti Episc. et Confessoris;;Duplex optional;;2;;vide C4

[Rule]
vide C4;
9 lectiones

[Oratio]
O God, Who didst make thy blessed Confessor and Bishop Norbert a notable preacher of thy Word, and wast pleased to make thy Church thereby fruitful in a new family of sons, grant, we beseech thee, unto us, that we being holpen by thee for his sake, may have strength to do those worthy deeds whereunto his words and works alike do move us.
$Per Dominum.

[Lectio4]
Norbert, born in the year 1080 of parents of the highest rank, thoroughly educated in his youth in worldly knowledge, and a member of the Imperial court, turned his back upon the glory of the world, and chose rather to enlist himself as a soldier of the Church. Being ordained Priest, he laid aside all soft and showy raiment, clad himself in a coat of skins, and made the preaching of the Word of God the one object of his life. He had the right to rich revenues of the Church but these he renounced and to an ample fortune from his father; but~
this he gave to the poor. He ate only once a day, and that in the evening, and then his meal was of the fare of Lent. His life was one of singular hardness, and he was used even in the depth of winter to go out with bare feet and ragged garments. Hence came that mighty power of his words and deeds, whereby he was enabled to turn countless heretics to the true faith, sinners to repentance, and enemies to peace and brotherly love.

[Lectio5]
Being one while at Laon, the Bishop besought him not to leave his diocese, and he therefore made choice of a wilderness at the place called Premontrd, whither he withdrew himself with thirteen disciples, and thus founded the Order of the Prasmonstratensian Canons, whereof he, by the will of God, received the Rule, in a vision, from St Austin. When, however, the fame of his holy life became every day more and more noised abroad, and great numbers sought to become his disciples, and the Order had been approved by Honorius II., and other Popes, many more monasteries were built by him, and the Institute wonderfully extended.

[Lectio6]
Being called to Antwerp, he there gave the death - blow to the shameful heresy of Tan chelin. He was remarkable for the spirit of prophecy and for the gift of miracles. He was created (albeit he would rather not have had it so) Archbishop of Magdeburg, and as such he was a strong upholder of the discipline of the Church, especially contending against the marriage of the clergy. At a Council held at Rheims he was a great help to Innocent II., and went with some Other Bishops to Rome, where they stamped out the schism of Peter Leoni. It was at last at Magdeburg that this man of God, full of good works and of the Holy Ghost, fell asleep in the Lord, on the 6th day of June, in the year of salvation 1134.

[Lectio94]
Norbert was born of most noble parents and, as a young man, studied the liberal arts. Then, while serving in the court of the Emperor himself, he spurned the seductions of the world and decided to enroll among the soldiers of the Church. After receiving holy orders he devoted himself entirely to preaching the word of God. He brought back innumerable heretics to the faith, sinners to penance, quarrellers to peace and concord. He retired to a desert place called Prémontré in the diocese of Laon ; and there, with thirteen companions, he founded the Premonstratensian Order, which spread in a marvellous way. Against his will, he was made Archbishop of Magdeburg, and constantly defended ecclesiastical discipline and especially celibacy. At the Council of Rheims, he was a strong champion of Innocent II ; and going to Rome with other bishops, he put an end to the schism of Pierleone. He fell asleep in the Lord at Magdeburg on the 6th day of June in the year of salvation 1134.
&teDeum
