[Rank]
In Commemoratione S. Pauli Apostoli;;Duplex majus;;4;;ex C1

[Rank1960]
In Commemoratione S. Pauli Apostoli;;Duplex;;3;;vide C1

[Rule]
ex C1;
9 lectiones
Psalmi Dominica
Antiphonas horas
Psalm5 Vespera=116
Psalm5 Vespera3=138
Sub unica concl
No prima vespera

[Ant Vespera]
I have planted, * Apollos watered, but God gave the increase. Alleluia.;;109
Most gladly therefore will I rather glory * in my infirmities, that the power of Christ may rest upon me.;;110
The grace of God which was bestowed upon me was not in vain, * but His grace abideth ever in me.;;111
In Damascus the governor under Aretas the king was desirous to apprehend me by the brethren in a basket was I let down by the wall, and so escaped I his hands, in the name of the Lord.;;112
Thrice was I beaten with rods, * once was I stoned, thrice I suffered shipwreck, for Christ's name's sake.;;116

[Capitulum Vespera]
!2 Tim 4:7-8
v. A jó harcot megharcolam, a pályát végigfutottam, hitemet megtartottam. Készen vár az igazság gyõzelmi koszorúja, amelyet azon a napon megad nekem az Úr, az igazságos bíró
$Deo gratias

[Versum 1]
V. O Holy Apostle Paul, thou art a chosen vessel unto God.
R. To preach the Gospel throughout the whole world.

[Ant 1]
O Holy Apostle Paul * Preacher of the truth, and Teacher of the Gentiles, pray for us to God Who hath chosen thee.

[Hymnus Matutinum]
Ó drága doktor, Pál, neveld erkölcseink
És vond magaddal lelkeinket ég felé,
Hol fátyolos hitünk egykor délszínre jut,
És napja egy és papja egy: a szeretet.
_
A Háromságnak örök dicsôség legyen.
És tisztelet és ujjongás és hatalom,
Az Egységben, ki mindenen kormánykodik,
Az öröklétnek minden századain át.
Ámen.

[Ant Matutinum]
He That wrought effectually in Peter to the Apostleship, the Same was mighty in me toward the Gentiles, and they perceived the grace that was given unto me of the Lord Christ;;18
I know Whom I have believed, and am persuaded that He is able to keep that which I have committed unto Him against that day, as a righteous Judge;;33
To me to live is Christ, and to die is gain God forbid that I should glory, save in the cross of our Lord Jesus Christ;;44
V. Their sound hath gone forth into all the earth
R. And their words unto the ends of the world.
O Holy Apostle Paul, thou art a chosen vessel unto God, to preach the Gospel throughout the whole world;;46
Paul is made one of the chiefest among the Saints, and a chosen vessel verily he is worthy to be glorified, for he was made worthy to sit upon one of the twelve thrones;;60
I have fought a good fight, I have finished my course, I have kept the faith;;63
V. Thou shalt make them princes over all the earth
R. They shall remember thy name O Lord.
Saul, who also is called Paul, was made a great preacher, and, being of God increased the more in strength, he confounded the Jews;;74
Lest I should be exalted above measure through the greatness of the revelations, there was given to me a thorn in the flesh, the messenger of Satan to buffet me for this thing I besought the Lord thrice, that it might depart from me and the Lord said unto me Paul, My grace is sufficient for thee;;96
There is laid up for me a crown of righteousness, which the Lord, the righteous Judge, shall give me at that day;;98
V. Your friends O Lord * are made exceedingly honourable:
R. Their principality is exceedingly strengthened.

[Lectio1]
Olvasmány az Apostolok Cselekedeibõl
!Acts 13:1-4
1 Az antióchiai egyházban volt több próféta és tanító, mint Barnabás, a Nigernek is nevezett Simon, a cirenei Luciusz, Heródes tejtestvére, Manaén és Saul.
2 Egy nap, amikor az istentiszteletet tartották és böjtöltek, így szólt hozzájuk a Szentlélek: "Rendeljétek nekem Barnabást és Sault arra a munkára, amelyet szántam nekik!"
3 Erre böjtöt tartottak, majd rájuk tették kezüket, és útnak bocsátották õket.
4 A Szentlélektõl küldetve Szeleukiába mentek, onnét Ciprusba hajóztak.

[Responsory1]
R. He That wrought effectually in Peter to the Apostleship, the Same was mighty in me toward the Gentiles,
* And they perceived the grace that was given unto me of the Lord Christ.
V. The grace of God which was bestowed upon me was not in vain, but His grace abideth ever in me.
R. And they perceived the grace that was given unto me of the Lord Christ.

[Lectio2]
!Acts 13:5-8
5 Szalamiszba érve a zsidók zsinagógáiban hirdették az Isten szavát. János is segített nekik.
6 Bejárták Páfuszig az egész szigetet, s közben találkoztak egy Barjézus nevû zsidó varázslóval és hamis prófétával.
7 Ez Szergius Paulusz helytartónak, ennek a bölcs férfinak a kíséretéhez tartozott, aki magához kérette Barnabást és Sault, hogy hallja az Isten szavát.
8 De Elimász, a varázsló - ezt jelenti a neve - akadékoskodott, és azon volt, hogy elfordítsa a helytartót a hittõl.

[Responsory2]
R. I have fought a good fight, I have finished my course, I have kept the faith
* Henceforth there is laid up for me a crown of righteousness.
V. I know Whom I have believed, and am persuaded that He is able to keep that which I have committed unto Him against that day.
R. Henceforth there is laid up for me a crown of righteousness.

[Lectio3]
!Acts 13:9-13
9 Erre Saul, vagy másik nevén Pál a Szentlélekkel eltelve rászegezte tekintetét,és
10 rákiáltott: "Sátán fia, tele minden ravaszsággal és gonoszsággal, és ellensége minden igazságnak, nem hagyod abba, hogy áskálódj az Úr egyenes útja ellen?
11 Lám, most lesújt rád az Úr keze, megvakulsz és nem látod a napot egy ideig." Azon nyomban vak sötétség szakadt rá, és botorkálva kereste, hogy valaki kezet nyújtson neki.
12 Amikor a helytartó látta az esetet, hívõ lett, mert egészen lenyûgözte az Úr tanítása.
13 Pál és kísérõi tengerre szálltak, és Páfuszból a pamfíliai Pergébe hajóztak. János elvált tõlük és visszatért Jeruzsálembe.

[Responsory3]
R. There is laid up for me a crown of righteousness
* Which the Lord, the righteous Judge, shall give me at that day.
V. I know Whom I have believed, and am persuaded that He is able to keep that which I have committed unto Him against that day.
R. Which the Lord, the righteous Judge, shall give me at that day.

[Lectio4]
From the Book of St Austin, Bishop of Hippo, touching Grace and Free-will.
!Chapter 6
The Apostle Paul was a man, who, when we first hear of him, had not only no merits, but a great many demerits. That man received the grace of God, Who returneth good for evil, and let us see in what sort of language, when the hour of his last sufferings was at hand, he wrote to Timothy. He saith I am now ready to be offered, and the time of my departure is at hand. I have fought a good fight, I have finished my course, I have kept the faith. (2 Tim. iii. 6.) Here he counteth his merits, whereon a crown was immediately to follow, just as grace had followed immediately on his demerits. Listen to what cometh next Henceforth there is laid up for me a crown of righteousness, which the Lord, the righteous Judge, shall give me at that day. Unto whom would the Lord give a crown as a righteous Judge, if He had not first given grace, as a merciful Father And how would that crown be a crown of righteousness, if there had not first come grace which justifieth the ungodly How could a reward have been earned unless the power to earn had first been given unearned?

[Responsory4]
R. O Holy Apostle Paul, thou art a chosen vessel unto God, to preach the Gospel throughout the whole world
* Through whom all nations have known the grace of God.
V. Pray for us to God Who hath chosen thee.
R. Through whom all nations have known the grace of God.

[Lectio5]
Let us now consider what were the merits of the Apostle Paul, which entitled him to look for a crown of righteousness from the Lord, the righteous Judge, and let us see whether these merits sprang from himself or were God's gifts to him. He saith I have fought a good fight, I have finished my course, I have kept the faith. To begin with, these good works would have been nothing worth, unless they had come from good thoughts. Listen therefore to what this same Paul saith concerning good thoughts. He writeth to the Corinthians Not that we are sufficient of ourselves to think anything, as of ourselves but our sufficiency~
is of God. (2 Cor. iii. 5.) Now let us take point by point.

[Responsory5]
R. By the grace of God I am what I am.
* And His grace which was bestowed upon me was not in vain, but abideth ever in me.
V. He that wrought effectually in Peter to the Apostleship, the Same was mighty in me toward the Gentiles.
R. And His grace which was bestowed upon me was not in vain, but abideth ever in me.

[Lectio6]
He saith I have fought a good fight. I should like to know in whose strength he fought In his own strength or in strength given him from above God forbid that this great teacher should be supposed not to have known the Law of his God, Who saith in the Book of Deuteronomy Say not in thine heart My power and the might of mine hand hath gotten me this wealth. But thou shalt remember the Lord thy God for it is He That giveth thee power to get wealth. (viii. 17, 18.) And, again, what is the good of a fight except it end in victory And who is he that giveth victory save He of Whom this very same Paul saith Thanks be to God, Which giveth us the victory, through our Lord Jesus~
Christ! (1 Cor. xv. 57.)

[Responsory6]
R. Saul, who also is called Paul, was made a great preacher
* And being of God increased the more in strength, he confounded the Jews.
V. Proving that This is very Christ, the Son of God.
R. And being of God increased the more in strength, he confounded the Jews.
&Gloria
R. And being of God increased the more in strength, he confounded the Jews.

[Lectio7]
Evangélium szent Máté Apostol kõnyvébõl
!Matt 10:16-22
16 Nézzétek, úgy küldelek titeket, mint bárányokat a farkasok közé! Legyetek tehát okosak, mint a kígyók, és egyszerûek, mint a galambok! És így tovább
_
Homily by St John Chrysostom, Patriarch of Constantinople.
!34 on Matthew.
It is as though He said Let not your heart be troubled although when I send you forth as sheep in the midst of wolves, I bid you be harmless as doves for, albeit, if I would, I could now make things otherwise, and suffer not that ye should have to bear anything grievous, neither be at the mercy of the wolves as are other sheep, but on the contrary, could make you more dreadful to the lions than the lions to you nevertheless, thus must it needs be, and yourselves it will make more glorious, and My power it will wholly show forth. For thus was it that afterwards the Same Lord said unto Paul: My grace is sufficient for thee,~
for My strength is made perfect in weakness. (2 Cor. xii. 9.) It is I that have made you to be what ye are.

[Lectio94]
From the Book of St Austin, Bishop of Hippo, touching Grace and Free-will.
!Chapter 6
The Apostle Paul was a man, who, when we first hear of him, had not only no merits, but a great many demerits. That man received the grace of God, Who returneth good for evil, and let us see in what sort of language, when the hour of his last sufferings was at hand, he wrote to Timothy. He saith I am now ready to be offered, and the time of my departure is at hand. I have fought a good fight, I have finished my course, I have kept the faith. (2 Tim. iii. 6.) Here he counteth his merits, whereon a crown was immediately to follow, just as grace had followed immediately on his demerits. Listen to what cometh next Henceforth there is laid up for me a crown of righteousness, which the Lord, the righteous Judge, shall give me at that day. Unto whom would the Lord give a crown as a righteous Judge, if He had not first given grace, as a merciful Father And how would that crown be a crown of righteousness, if there had not first come grace which justifieth the ungodly How could a reward have been earned unless the power to earn had first been given unearned?
&teDeum

[Responsory7]
R. O Holy Apostle Paul, Preacher of the truth, and teacher of the Gentiles,
* Pray for us to God, Who hath chosen thee, that we may be made worthy of the grace of God.
V. O Holy Apostle Paul, thou art a chosen vessel unto God, and a Preacher of the truth.
R. Pray for us to God Who hath chosen thee, that we may be made worthy of the grace of God.

[Lectio8]
But let us look what wisdom it is which the Lord requireth. It is the wisdom of the serpent. The serpent draweth all the rest of his body after his head, and it is no matter to him if his body be cut through, so long as he keepeth his head unharmed. Thus, O Christian, is it with thee. It is no matter to thee that for thy faith's sake thou shouldest lose all things else money, or body, or, if need be, life itself. thy faith is thy head, and the root of thy being hold fast to that, and, as long as thou hast that, although thou shouldest lose all things else, it will only be to receive them back again with interest an hundredfold. And thus it is that the Lord biddeth us, not to be single-hearted only, nor wise only, but both together, that therefrom we may be strong.

[Responsory8]
R. In Damascus the governor under Aretas the king was desirous to apprehend me
* And by the brethren in a basket was I let down by the wall, and so escaped I his hands, in the name of the Lord.
V. The God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ knoweth that I lie not.
R. And by the brethren in a basket was I let down by the wall.
&Gloria
R. And by the brethren in a basket was I let down by the wall.

[Lectio9]
If thou wilt see how these words were brought to the proof in very deed, read the Book of the Acts of the Apostles. There thou wilt see how that oftentimes the Jewish people rose against the Apostles and gnashed on them with their teeth, but they, with dove-like guilelessness, gave them smooth answers, and turned away their wrath, and quenched their fury, and stopped their onset. When the Jews said Did not we straitly command you, that ye should not teach in this Name? although the Apostles could have worked any miracles they chose, yet they neither said nor did anything sharp, but answered them with all meekness Whether it be right in the sight of God to hearken unto you more than unto God,~
judge ye. (Acts v. 28 iv. 19.) Here thou hast the harmlessness of doves listen now to the wisdom of serpents We cannot but speak the things which we have seen and heard. (20.)
&teDeum

[Ant Laudes]
I have planted, * Apollos watered, but God gave the increase. Alleluia.
Most gladly therefore will I rather glory * in my infirmities, that the power of Christ may rest upon me.
The grace of God which was bestowed upon me was not in vain, * but His grace abideth ever in me.
In Damascus the governor under Aretas the king was desirous to apprehend me by the brethren in a basket was I let down by the wall, and so escaped I his hands, in the name of the Lord.
Thrice was I beaten with rods, * once was I stoned, thrice I suffered shipwreck, for Christ's name's sake.

[Capitulum Laudes]
!2 Tim 4:7-8
v. A jó harcot megharcolam, a pályát végigfutottam, hitemet megtartottam. Készen vár az igazság gyõzelmi koszorúja, amelyet azon a napon megad nekem az Úr, az igazságos bíró
$Deo gratias

[Hymnus Laudes]
@Commune/C1:Hymnus Vespera

[Versum 2]
V. O Holy Apostle Paul, thou art a chosen vessel unto God.
R. To preach the Gospel throughout the whole world.

[Ant 2]
Thus saith the Lord * Ye, which have followed Me, shall sit upon twelve thrones, judging the twelve tribes of Israel.

[Oratio]
O God, Who, through the preaching of the Blessed Apostle Paul, hast caused the light of the Gospel to shine gloriously among the Gentiles, we beseech thee that we who keep the Feast of his birth, may, now that he is with thee, feel to our comfort that his prayer availeth much with thee.
$Per Dominum
_
@Sancti/01-25:Commemoratio4

[Commemoratio]
@Sancti/06-24:Octava

[Lectio Prima]
!1 Cor 15:9-10
v. Én ugyanis az utolsó vagyok az apostolok közt, s arra sem méltó, hogy apostolnak hívjanak, hiszen üldöztem az Isten egyházát. De Isten kegyelmébõl vagyok az, ami vagyok, s rám árasztott kegyelme nem maradt bennem hatástalan.

[Capitulum Tertia]
!2 Tim 4:7-8
v. A jó harcot megharcolam, a pályát végigfutottam, hitemet megtartottam. Készen vár az igazság gyõzelmi koszorúja, amelyet azon a napon megad nekem az Úr, az igazságos bíró
$Deo gratias

[Responsory Tertia]
R.br. Their sound hath gone * forth into all the earth
R. Their sound hath gone * forth into all the earth:
V. And their words unto the ends of the world.
R. Forth into all the earth:
&Gloria
R. Their sound hath gone * forth into all the earth:
_
V. Thou shalt make them princes over all the earth
R. They shall remember thy name, O Lord

[Capitulum Sexta]
!2 Cor 12:7-9
v. De hogy a nagyszerû kinyilatkoztatás elbizakodottá ne tegyen, tövist kaptam testembe, a sátán angyalát, hogy arcul csapkodjon, és el ne bízzam magam. Háromszor kértem ezért az Urat, hogy szabadítson meg tõle, de azt felelte: Elég neked az én kegyelmem.
$Deo gratias

[Responsory Sexta]
R.br. Thou shalt make them princes * over all the earth
R. Thou shalt make them princes * over all the earth
V. They shall remember thy name, O Lord
R. All over the earth.
&Gloria
R. Thou shalt make them princes * over all the earth.
_
V. O God, are made exceedingly honourable:
R. Their principality is exceedingly strengthened.

[Capitulum Nona]
!1 Cor 15:9-10
v. Én ugyanis az utolsó vagyok az apostolok közt, s arra sem méltó, hogy apostolnak hívjanak, hiszen üldöztem az Isten egyházát. De Isten kegyelmébõl vagyok az, ami vagyok, s rám árasztott kegyelme nem maradt bennem hatástalan.
$Deo gratias

[Responsory Nona]
R.br. Your friends O God * are made exceedingly honourable:
R. O God, your friends * are made exceedingly honourable:
V. their principality is exceedingly strengthened.
R. O God, your friends
&Gloria
R. O God, your friends *are made exceedingly honourable:
_
V. They declared the works of God
R. And understood his doings.
