[Officium]
Zjevení Páně

[Ant Vespera]
Před východem slunce zrozen, * a před věky, Pán náš Spasitel se dnes zjevil světu.
Přišlo tvé světlo, * Jerusaléme, a sláva Páně vzešla nad tebou, a Národy budou kráčet ve tvém světle, alleluja.
Když otevřeli své poklady, * obětovali Mudrci Pánu zlato, kadidlo a myrhu, alleluja.
Moře a řeky, * dobrořečte Pánu; Prameny, velebte Pána, alleluja.
A ta hvězda * září jako plamen, a ukazuje Krále králů a Boha. Mudrci ji uviděli, a velikému Králi přinesli dary.

[Hymnus Vespera]
v. Proč jen, bezbožný Herode
Bojíš se Boha a Krále?
Neuchvacuje časný trůn 
Kdo dává říše nebeské.
_
Šli Mudrci a hvězdička,
již viděli, před nimi šla,
Světlo též světlem hledali,
Dary jej Bohem vyznali.
_
Lázeň z čistého pramene
Nebeský přines' Beránek,
A hříchy, jež neodnesl
Obmyv nás pak na sebe vzal.
_
V novém druhu jeho moci
Džbány vody zčervenají,
Když nalít víno přikázal,
Mění voda podstatu svou.
_
Buď sláva tobě, Ježíši,
Jenž jsi Pohanům zjevený,
i Otci, Duchu milosti
po všechny věky věčnosti.
Amen.

[Versum 1_]
V. Králové Taršíše i ostrovů přinesou dary.
R. Králové Arabů s Sáby přinesou oběti.

[Versum 1]
@:Versum 1_
(sed rubrica cisterciensis)
@:Versum 1C

[Versum 1C]
V. Přicházejí všichni ze Sáby.
R. Přinášejí zlato a kadidlo, a hlásají chválu Páně.

[Ant 1]
Mudrci, * když uviděli hvězdu, řekli si společně: Je to znamení velikého Krále; pojďme jej navštívit, a obětujme mu dary, zlato, kadidlo a myrhu, alleluja.

[Oratio]
Bože, jenž jsi dnešního dne svého Jednorozeného zjevil Pohanům vedeným hvězdou, popřej milostivě, abychom my, kteří jsme tě už vírou poznali, až k patření na krásu tvé velebnosti byli přivedeni. 
$Per eumdem

[Invit]
Christ appeared to us, * O come, let us worship Him.

[Ant Matutinum]
Give unto the Lord, O ye sons of God, * worship the Lord in His holy courts.;;28
It is a river, the streams whereof make glad, * alleluia, the city of God, alleluia.;;45
Sing praises to our God, sing praises * sing praises unto our King, sing ye praises with understanding.;;46
Let all the earth worship thee, and sing unto thee * let them sing praises to thy name, O Lord.;;65
The kings of Tarshish and the isles shall bring presents * unto the Lord the King.;;71
All nations whom Thou hast made shall come * and worship before thee, O Lord.;;85
@SanctiM/01-06:AntMatutinumM:2
(sed die Epiphaniæ dicitur)
O come, let us worship Him: * for He is the Lord our God.;;94
O worship the Lord, * alleluia, in His holy temple, alleluia.;;95
Worship God, * alleluia, all ye His Angels, alleluia.;;96

[Nocturn 1 Versum]
V. Ať se ti klaní celá země a pěje ti chválu.
R. Chvalozpěv ať pronáší tvému jménu, Hospodine.

[Nocturn 3 Versum]
V. Klaňte se Hospodinu, alleluja.
R. V jeho svatém chrámu, alleluja.

[Lectio1]
Lesson from the book of Isaias
!Isa 55:1-4
1 All you that thirst, come to the waters: and you that have no money make haste, buy, and eat: come ye, buy wine and milk without money, and without any price.
2 Why do you spend money for that which is not bread, and your labour for that which doth not satisfy you? Hearken diligently to me, and eat that which is good, and your soul shall be delighted in fatness.
3 Incline your ear and come to me: hear and your soul shall live, and I will make an everlasting covenant with you, the faithful mercies of David.
4 Behold I have given him for a witness to the people, for a leader and a master to the Gentiles.

[Responsory1]
R. This day, when the Lord was baptized in Jordan, the heavens were opened, and the Spirit descended like a dove, and abode upon Him, and, lo, the voice of the Father was heard, like unto thunder, saying:
* This is My beloved Son, in Whom I am well pleased.
V. The Holy Ghost descended in a bodily shape like a dove upon Him, and a voice came from heaven
R. This is My beloved Son, in Whom I am well pleased.

[Responsory1InfraOctavam]
R. There are three precious gifts which the wise men offered unto the Lord on this day, and they speak a mystery of the things of God:
* Gold, to show His kingly power; frankincense, for our Great High Priest; and myrrh, against the Lord's burying.
V. The wise men worshipped the Captain of our Salvation, as He lay in the manger, and when they had opened their treasures, they presented unto Him mystic gifts.
R. Gold, to show His kingly power; frankincense, for our Great High Priest; and myrrh, against the Lord's burying.

[Lectio2]
!Isa 60:1-6
1 Arise, be enlightened, O Jerusalem: for thy light is come, and the glory of the Lord is risen upon thee.
2 For behold darkness shall cover the earth, and a mist the people: but the Lord shall arise upon thee, and his glory shall be seen upon thee.
3 And the Gentiles shall walk in thy light, and kings in the brightness of thy rising.
4 Lift up thy eyes round about, and see: all these are gathered together, they are come to thee: thy sons shall come from afar, and thy daughters shall rise up at thy side.
5 Then shalt thou see, and abound, and thy heart shall wonder and be enlarged, when the multitude of the sea shall be converted to thee, the strength of the Gentiles shall come to thee.
6 The multitude of camels shall cover thee, the dromedaries of Madian and Epha: all they from Saba shall come, bringing gold and frankincense: and shewing forth praise to the Lord.

[Responsory2]
R. The Holy Ghost appeared in a bodily shape like a dove, and the voice of the Father was heard:
* This is My beloved Son, in Whom I am well pleased.
V. The heavens were opened unto him, and, lo, the voice of the Father was heard, like unto thunder, saying:
R. This is My beloved Son, in Whom I am well pleased.

[Lectio3]
!Isa 61:10-11; 62:1
10 I will greatly rejoice in the Lord, and my soul shall be joyful in my God: for he hath clothed me with the garments of salvation: and with the robe of justice he hath covered me, as a bridegroom decked with a crown, and as a bride adorned with her jewels.
11 For as the earth bringeth forth her bud, and as the garden causeth her seed to shoot forth: so shall the Lord God make justice to spring forth, and praise before all the nations.
1 For Sion's sake I will not hold my peace, and for the sake of Jerusalem, I will not rest till her just one come forth as brightness, and her saviour be lighted as a lamp.

[Responsory3]
R. The kings of Tarshish and of the isles shall bring presents.
* The kings of Arabia and Saba shall offer gifts unto the Lord God.
V. All they from Saba shall come, they shall bring gold and incense.
R. The kings of Arabia and Saba shall offer gifts unto the Lord God.
&Gloria
R. The kings of Arabia and Saba shall offer gifts unto the Lord God.

[Lectio4]
From the Sermons of Pope St. Leo (the Great)
!2nd for Twelfth-Day.
Dearly beloved brethren, rejoice in the Lord; again I say, rejoice. But a few days are past since the solemnity of Christ's Birth, and now the glorious light of His Manifestation is breaking upon us. On that day the Virgin brought Him forth, and on this the world knew Him. The Word made Flesh was pleased to reveal Himself by degrees to those for whom He had come. When Jesus was born He was manifested indeed to the believing, but hidden from His enemies. Already indeed the heavens declared the glory of God, and their sound went out into all lands, when the Herald Angels appeared to tell to the shepherds the glad tidings of a Saviour's Birth; and now the guiding star leadeth the wise men to worship Him, that from the rising of the sun to the going down thereof, the Birth of the true King may be known abroad; that through those wise men the kingdoms of the east might learn the great truth, and the Roman empire remain no more in darkness.

[Responsory4]
R. Shine, shine, O Jerusalem, for thy light is come;
* And the glory of the Lord is risen upon thee.
V. And the Gentiles shall walk in thy light, and kings in the brightness of thy rising.
R. And the glory of the Lord is risen upon thee.

[Lectio5]
The very cruelty of Herod, when he strove to crush at His birth this King Whom he alone feared, was made a blind means to carry out this dispensation of mercy. While the tyrant with horrid guilt sought to slay the little Child he did not know, amid an indiscriminate slaughter of innocents, his infamous act served to spread wider abroad the heaven-told news of the Birth of the Lord. Thus were these glad tidings loudly proclaimed, both by the novelty of their story, and the iniquity of their enemies. Then was the Saviour borne into Egypt, that nation, of a long time hardened in idolatry, might by the mysterious virtue which went out of Him, even when His presence was unknown, be prepared for the saving light so soon to dawn on them, and might receive the Truth as a wanderer even before they had banished falsehood.

[Responsory5]
R. All they from Saba shall come, they shall bring gold and incense, and they shall show forth the praises of the Lord.
* Alleluia, Alleluia, Alleluia.
V. The kings of Tarshish and of the isles shall bring presents, the kings of Arabia and Saba shall offer gifts.
R. Alleluia, Alleluia, Alleluia.

[Lectio6]
Dearly beloved brethren, we recognize in the wise men who came to worship Christ, the first-fruits of that dispensation to the Gentiles wherein we also are called and enlightened. Let us then keep this Feast with grateful hearts, in thanksgiving for our blessed hope, whereof it doth commemorate the dawn. From that worship paid to the new-born Christ is to be dated the entry of us Gentiles upon our heirship of God and co-heirship with Christ. Since that joyful day the Scriptures which testify of Christ have lain open for us as well as for the Jews. Yea, their blindness rejected that Truth, Which, since that day, hath shed Its bright beams upon all nations. Let all observance, then, be paid to this most sacred day, whereon the Author of our salvation was made manifest, and as the wise men fell down and worshipped Him in the manger, so let us fall down and worship Him enthroned Almighty in heaven. As they also opened their treasures and presented unto Him mystic and symbolic gifts, so let us strive to open our hearts to Him, and offer Him from thence some worthy offering.

[Responsory6]
R. There came wise men from the east to Jerusalem, asking and saying: Where is He That is born King of the Jews? for we have seen His star in the east;
* And are come to worship the Lord.
V. We have seen His star in the east.
R. And are come to worship the Lord.
&Gloria
R. And are come to worship the Lord.

[Lectio7]
From the Holy Gospel according to Matthew
!Matt 2:1-12
When Jesus therefore was born in Bethlehem of Juda, in the days of king Herod, behold, there came wise men from the east to Jerusalem, saying: Where is he that is born king of the Jews? And so on.
_
Homily by Pope St. Gregory (the Great.)
!10th on the Gospels
Dearly beloved brethren, hear ye from the Gospel lesson how, when the King of heaven was born, the king of earth was troubled? The heights of heaven are opened and the depths of earth are stirred. Let us now consider the question, why, when the Redeemer was born, an angel brought the news to the shepherds of Judea, but a star led the wise men of the East to worship Him. It seemeth as if the Jews as reasonable creatures received a revelation from a reasonable being, that is, an angel, but the Gentiles without, being as brutes, are roused not by a voice, but by a sign, that is, a star. Hence Paul hath it: a sign, not to them that believe, but to them that believe not but prophesying serveth not for them that believe not, but for them which believe. (1 Cor. xiv. 22.) So the prophesying, that is, of the angel was given to them that believed, and the sign to them that believed not.

[Responsory7]
R. The star which the wise men had seen in the East, went before them, till they came where the young Child was.
* And when they saw the star, they rejoiced with exceeding great joy.
V. And when they were come into the house, they found the young Child with Mary His Mother, and fell down and worshipped Him.
R. And when they saw the star, they rejoiced with exceeding great joy.

[Lectio8]
Thus also we remark that afterwards the Redeemer was preached among the Gentiles not by Himself, but by His Apostles, even as, when a little Child, He is shown to them, not by the voice of angels, but merely by the vision of a star. When He Himself had begun to speak He was made known to us by speakers, but when He lay silent in the manger, by that silent testimony in heaven. But whether we consider the signs which accompanied His birth or His death, this thing is wonderful, namely, the hardness of heart of the Jews, who would not believe in Him either for prophesying or for miracles.

[Responsory8]
R. When the wise men saw the star, they rejoiced with exceeding great joy.
* And when they were come into the house, they found the young Child with Mary His Mother, and fell down and worshipped Him; * 
and when they had opened their treasures, they presented unto Him gifts; gold, and frankincense, and myrrh.
V. The star which the wise men had seen in the East, went before them, till it came and stood over where the young Child was.
R. And when they were come into the house, they found the young Child with Mary His Mother, and fell down and worshipped Him.
&Gloria
R. And when they had opened their treasures, they presented unto Him gifts; gold, and frankincense, and myrrh.

[Lectio9]
All things which He had made, bore witness that their Maker was come. Let me reckon them after the manner of men. The heavens knew that He was God, and sent a star to shine over where He lay. The sea knew it, and bore Him up when He walked upon it. The earth knew it, and quaked when He died. The sun knew it, and was darkened. The rocks and walls knew it, and rent at the hour of His death. Hell knew it, and gave up the dead that were in it. And yet up to this very hour the hearts of the unbelieving Jews will not acknowledge that He to Whom all nature testified is their God, and, being more hardened than the rocks, refuse to be rent by repentance.
&teDeum

[Capitulum Laudes]
!Isa 60:1
v. Povstaň a rozjasni se, Jerusaléme, neboť přišlo tvé světlo, a sláva Páně vzešla nad tebou.
$Deo gratias

[Hymnus Laudes]
v. Ty jediné z velikých Měst,
Velký Betléme, kde se stalo.
že Vůdce spásy nebeský
V těle se slavně narodil.
_
Ta hvězda, jež se krásou skví
víc nežli slunce planoucí,
roznáší zprávu po zemi,
že přišel k nám Bůh vtělený.
_
Viděli jej pak Mudrci,
Když z Východu přinesli dary,
Padli na zem a dali mu,
Kadidlo, myrhu, zlato králů.
_
Krále a Boha ohlašují,
poklady i krásná vůně
Kadidla ze Sáby, a myrhový 
Prach jeho hrob nám zvěstují.
_
Buď sláva tobě, Ježíši,
Jenž jsi Pohanům zjevený,
i Otci, Duchu milosti
po všechny věky věčnosti.
Amen.

[Versum 2]
V. Klaňte se Bohu, alleluja.
R. Všichni jeho Andělé, slleluja.

[Versum 2] (rubrica cisterciensis)
@:Versum 1

[Ant 2]
Dnes * se k nebeskému Ženichu připojila Církev, neboť v Jordánu obmyl Kristus její přečiny. Mudrci s dary běží ke královské svatbě; a z vody proměněné ve víno se radují hodující, alleluja.

[Lectio Prima]
!Isa 60:6
v. Přijdou všichni ze Sáby, přinesou zlato a kadidlo, rozhlásí Hospodinovu chválu.

[Responsory Breve Tertia]
R.br. Králové Taršíše a ostrovů přinesou dary. * Alleluja, alleluja.
R. Králové Taršíše a ostrovů přinesou dary. * Alleluja, alleluja.
V. Králové Arábie a Sáby přijdou i s dary.
R. Alleluja, alleluja.
&Gloria
R. Králové Taršíše a ostrovů přinesou dary. * Alleluja, alleluja. Alleluia.

[Responsory Breve Tertia] (rubrica cisterciensis)
R.br. Posvěcený den * nám zazářil.
R. Posvěcený den * nám zazářil.
V. Pojďte, Pohané, a klaňte se Pánu.
R. Nám zazářil.

[Versum Tertia]
V. All they from Saba shall come. Alleluia.
R. They shall bring gold and incense. Alleluia.

[Capitulum Sexta]
!Isa 60:4
v. Rozhlédni se kolem a podívej se: ti všichni se shromáždili, přišli k tobě. Zdaleka přicházejí tvoji synové, na zádech jsou přinášeny tvoje dcery.
$Deo gratias

[Responsory Breve Sexta]
R.br. All they from Saba shall come. * Alleluia, Alleluia.
R. All they from Saba shall come. * Alleluia, Alleluia.
V. They shall bring gold and incense.
R. Alleluia, Alleluia.
&Gloria
R. All they from Saba shall come. * Alleluia, Alleluia.

[Responsory Breve Sexta] (rubrica cisterciensis)
R.br. Králové Taršíše a ostrovů * Přinesou dary.
R. Králové Taršíše a ostrovů * Přinesou dary.
V. Králové Arábie a Sáby přijdou i s dary.
R. Přinesou dary.

[Responsory Breve Nona]
R.br. Worship the Lord. * Alleluia, Alleluia.
R. Worship the Lord. * Alleluia, Alleluia.
V. In His holy courts.
R. Alleluia, Alleluia.
&Gloria
R. Worship the Lord. * Alleluia, Alleluia.

[Versum 3] (rubrica cisterciensis)
@:Versum 1

[Ant 3]
This day we keep a holiday in honour of three wonders, * this day a star led the wise men to the manger; this day at the marriage, water was made wine; this day was Christ, for our salvation, pleased to be baptized of John in Jordan. Alleluia.

[Ant 3] (rubrica cisterciensis)
Z Východu * přišli Mudrcové do Betléma poklonit se Pánu, a když otevřeli své poklady, obětovali mu cenné dary: zlato jako velikému Králi; kadidlo jako pravému Bohu; myrhu pak k jeho pohřbu.
