[Rank]
Stolec sv. Petra v Antiochii;;Duplex majus;;4;;ex C4

[Rank] (rubrica 196)
Stolec sv. Petra v Antiochii;;Duplex II classis;;5;;ex C4

[Hymnus Vespera]
v. Petře, všechno, co ty na zemi svážeš vždy,
to svázáno je rovněž v říši věčných hvězd.
Co rozhodnutím svým však rozváže zde zas,
to v jasném nebi také rozvázáno jest,
na konci věků bude soudit všechny nás.
_
Buď Otci sláva na věky věčnosti,
i tobě, Synu, buď na věky moc i čest.
Ať také všemocného Ducha všichni ctí.
Na věčné věky ať vzdávána stále jest
zvlášť vroucí úcta celé svaté Trojici.
Amen.

[Versum 1]
V. Ty jsi Petr, <i>Skála</i>.
R. A na této skále vybuduji svou Církev.

[Ant 1]
Ty jsi pastýř ovcí * a Kníže Apoštolů, tobě svěřeny byly klíče od království nebeského.

[Oratio]
v. Bože, jenž jsi svatému Petru, tvému Apoštolu, udělil klíče od království nebeského~
a spolu s tím mu předal i moc svazovat i rozvazovat; uděl nám, ať pomocí jeho přímluvy~
i my jsme osvobozeni od pout našich hříchů.
$Qui vivis
_
@Sancti/02-22:Commemoratio4

[Invit]
Thou art the Shepherd of the sheep, and the Prince of the Apostles * and unto thee hath God given the keys of the kingdom of heaven.

[Lectio1]
Lesson from the first letter of St. Peter the Apostle
!1 Pet 1:1-5
1 Peter, an apostle of Jesus Christ, to the strangers dispersed through Pontus, Galatia, Cappadocia, Asia, and Bithynia, elect,
2 According to the foreknowledge of God the Father, unto the sanctification of the Spirit, unto obedience and sprinkling of the blood of Jesus Christ: Grace unto you and peace be multiplied.
3 Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who according to his great mercy hath regenerated us unto a lively hope, by the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead,
4 Unto an inheritance incorruptible, and undefiled, and that can not fade, reserved in heaven for you,
5 Who, by the power of God, are kept by faith unto salvation, ready to be revealed in the last time.

[Responsory1]
R. Simon Peter, before I called thee out of the ship, I knew thee, and appointed thee for a ruler over My people.
* And I have given unto thee the keys of the kingdom of heaven.
V. Whatsoever, thou shalt bind on earth, shall be bound in heaven; and whatsoever thou shalt loose on earth, shall be loosed in heaven.
R. And I have given unto thee the keys of the kingdom of heaven.

[Lectio2]
!1 Pet 1:6-9
6 Wherein you shall greatly rejoice, if now you must be for a little time made sorrowful in diverse temptations:
7 That the trial of your faith much more precious than gold which is tried by the fire may be found unto praise and glory and honour at the appearing of Jesus Christ:
8 Whom having not seen, you love: in whom also now, though you see him not, you believe: and believing shall rejoice with joy unspeakable and glorified;
9 Receiving the end of your faith, even the salvation of your souls.

[Responsory2]
R. Simon Peter, if thou lovest Me, feed My sheep. Lord, Thou knowest that I love thee;
* I will lay down my life for thy sake.
V. If I should die with thee, I will not deny thee.
R. I will lay down my life for thy sake.

[Lectio3]
!1 Pet 1:10-12
10 Of which salvation the prophets have inquired and diligently searched, who prophesied of the grace to come in you.
11 Searching what or what manner of time the Spirit of Christ in them did signify: when it foretold those sufferings that are in Christ, and the glories that should follow:
12 To whom it was revealed, that not to themselves, but to you they ministered those things which are now declared to you by them that have preached the gospel to you, the Holy Ghost being sent down from heaven, on whom the angels desire to look.

[Responsory3]
R. Thou art Peter, and upon this rock I will build My Church, and the gates of hell shall not prevail against it.
* And I will give unto thee the keys of the kingdom of heaven.
V. Whatsoever thou shalt bind on earth, shall be bound in heaven; and whatsoever thou shalt loose on earth, shall be loosed in heaven.
R. And I will give unto thee the keys of the kingdom of heaven.
&Gloria
R. And I will give unto thee the keys of the kingdom of heaven.

[Lectio4]
From the Sermons of St. Augustine, Bishop (of Hippo.) 
!16th on the Saints
The solemn Feast of today received from our forefathers the name of that of St Peter's Chair at Antioch, because there is a tradition that it was on this day that Peter, first of the Apostles, was enthroned in a Bishop's Chair. Rightly, therefore, do the Churches observe the first day of that Chair, the right to which the Apostle received for the salvation of the Churches from the Lord of the Churches Himself, with the words: Thou art Peter, and upon this rock I will build My Church.

[Responsory4]
R. Thou art the Shepherd of the sheep, and the Prince of the Apostles, and unto thee hath God given all the kingdoms of the world.
* Therefore unto thee hath He given the keys of the kingdom of heaven.
V. Whatsoever thou shalt bind on earth shall be bound in heaven; and whatsoever thou shalt loose on earth shall be loosed in heaven.
R. Therefore unto thee hath He given the keys of the kingdom of heaven.

[Lectio5]
It was the Lord Himself Who called Peter the foundation of the Church, and therefore it is right that the Church should reverence this foundation whereon her mighty structure riseth. Justly is it written in the Psalm which we have just heard: Let them exalt him in the congregation of the people, and praise him in the assembly of the elders. Blessed be God, Who hath commanded that the Blessed Apostle Peter should be exalted in the congregation! Worthy to be honoured by the Church is that foundation from which her goodly towers rise, pointing to heaven!

[Responsory5]
R. Peter, I have prayed for thee, that thy faith fail not
* And when thou art converted, strengthen thy brethren.
V. Flesh and blood hath not revealed it unto thee, but My Father Which is in heaven.
R. And when thou art converted, strengthen thy brethren.

[Lectio6]
In the honour which is this day paid to the inauguration of the first Bishop's throne, an honour is paid to the office of all Bishops. The Churches testify one to another, that, the greater the Church's dignity, the greater the reverence due to her priests. While I confess how rightly godly custom hath exalted this Feast in the estimation of all the Churches, the more do I wonder at the growth of that unhealthy error which at this day causeth some unbelievers to lay food and wine upon the graves of the dead, as if souls once rid of the body had any longer any need of bodily refreshment.

[Responsory6]
R. Peter, lovest thou Me? Lord, Thou knowest that I love thee.
* Feed My sheep.
V. Simon, son of Jonas, lovest thou Me more than these? Lord, Thou knowest that I love thee.
R. Feed My sheep.
&Gloria
R. Feed My sheep.

[Lectio7]
From the Holy Gospel according to Matthew
!Matt 16:13-19
At that time, Jesus came into the coasts of Caesarea Philippi, and He asked His disciples, saying: Who do men say that I, the Son of Man, am? And so on.
_
Homily by Pope St. Leo (the Great.)
!3rd on the Anniversary of his own election
The Lord asked His disciples Who men said that He was, and their answers were human as long as they were the answers of human reason, unilluminated by Divine light. At last, when the glimmerings of earthly conjecture were spoken, he whose Apostleship is the first in dignity, was the first to confess his Lord. And Simon Peter answered and said: Thou art the Christ, the Son of the living God. And Jesus answered and said unto him: Blessed art thou, Simon Bar-Jona, for flesh and blood hath not revealed it unto thee, but My Father Which is in heaven. That is to say, For this cause art thou blessed, because My Father Himself hath taught thee; the opinions of men have not beguiled thee, the voices of angels have not taught thee, not flesh and blood, but He, Whose Only begotten Son I am, hath revealed Me unto thee.

[Responsory7]
R. Jesus asked His disciples, saying: Who do men say that I, the Son of Man, am? Peter answered, and said: Thou art the Christ, the Son of the living God.
* And I say unto thee, that thou art Peter, and upon this rock I will build My Church.
V. Blessed art thou, Simon Bar-Jona, for flesh and blood hath not revealed it unto thee, but My Father Which is in heaven.
R. And I say unto thee, that thou art Peter, and upon this rock I will build My Church.

[Lectio8]
Thus saith the Lord unto Simon Peter: And I say also unto thee, That thou art Peter. That is to say, Even as My Father hath revealed unto thee concerning Me that I am God, even so now will I also reveal unto thee that thou art Peter; I am the sure Rock of defence, the Corner Stone, Who make both one, (Eph. ii. 20, 15,) I am the Foundation, beside Which other can no man lay, (1 Cor. iii. 11,) and thou also art a rock, in My Strength made hard, and those things whereof I by right am Lord, into thy hand do I give them, that thou mayst bear rule over them, for Me, and with Me. And upon this rock I will build My Church, and the gates of hell shall not prevail against it. Upon this strength of thine, whereof I am the Strength, I will build My eternal temple, and upon the truth of thy confession of Me I will make to rise My glorious Church whose spires shall pierce to heaven.

[Responsory8]
R. The Lord hath chosen thee for a priest unto Himself, to offer up unto Him
* The sacrifice of praise.
V. Offer unto God thanksgiving, and pay thy vows unto the Most High.
R. The sacrifice of praise.
&Gloria
R. The sacrifice of praise.

[Lectio9]
Against this confession the gates of hell shall never prevail, neither shall the bonds of death take hold upon it. Thus saith He That is faithful and true. And as this confession hath power to lift up to heaven them that make it, so is it able to thrust down to hell them that gainsay it. Wherefore it is said unto the most blessed Peter: And I will give unto thee the keys of the kingdom of heaven and whatsoever thou shalt bind on earth, shall be bound in heaven; and whatsoever thou shalt loose on earth, shall be loosed in heaven. This power passed indeed to the other Apostles also; this the Lord's will had effect in them; but it is not in vain that it is written that that was given to one which passed from him to all. To Peter alone were the keys given, and Peter is set as the pattern for all them that bear rule in the Church to follow. There remaineth therefore the right of Peter, wheresoever his judgment decreeth justice. Neither is there anything too hard, or too lax, where there is nothing bound and nothing loosed, save when Peter bindeth or looseth.
&teDeum

[Hymnus Laudes]
v. Pastýři dobrý, Petře, rač teď přijmouti 
Hlasy prosících, a pouta našich hříchů
Rozvaž nyní, svou mocí, již ti svěřil Pán,
Kterou též nám všem nebe slovem otvíráš.
_
Buď Trojici již věčná sláva bez konce,
Úcta a mocnost, také veliký jásot;
V jednotě, v níž zůstává všechna vláda,
Od věčnosti, teď, i na veškeré věky.
Amen.

[Versum 2]
V. Vyvyšujte jej ve Shromáždění lidu.
R. A na trůnu starších jej chvalte.

[Ant 2]
Cokoliv * svážeš na zemi, bude svázáno i v nebesích, a cokoliv rozvážeš na zemi, bude rozvázáno i v nebesích, řekl Pán Šimonu Petrovi.

[Versum 3]
V. Vyvolil si jej Hospodin za svého kněze.
R. Aby mu přinášel oběť chvály.

[Versum 3] (rubrica cisterciensis)
@:Versum 1

[Ant 3]
@Commune/C4:Ant 3 summi Pontificis

[Commemoratio4]
!Připomínka svatého Pavla Apoštola
(deinde dicuntur)
Ant. Svatý Pavle Apoštole, kazateli pravdy a učiteli Národů,~
přimlouvej se za nás u Boha, který si tě vyvolil.
_
V. Ty jsi nádoba vyvolená, svatý Pavle Apoštole.
R. Kazatel pravdy po celém světě.
_
$Oremus
(sed rubrica 196 hæc versus omittuntur)
v. Bože, jenž jsi veliké množství národů vyučil kázáním svatého Pavla Apoštola; dej nám, prosíme, abychom slavením jeho památky pocítili také jeho přímluvu u tebe.
$Per Dominum
