[Rank]
Annunciation of the Blessed Virgin Mary;;Duplex I classis;;6.5;;ex C11

[Rank] (rubrica 196)
Annunciation of the Blessed Virgin Mary;;Duplex I classis;;6;;ex C11

[Ant Vespera]
Poslán byl * Anděl Gabriel k Panně Marii, zasnoubené Josefovi. (Alleluja.);;109
Zdrávas, Maria, * milostiplná, Pán s tebou; požehnaná jsi mezi ženami. (Alleluja.);;112
Neboj se, Maria, * nalezla jsi milost u Hospodina; hle, počneš a porodíš syna. (Alleluia.);;121
Dá mu Hospodin * trůn Davidův, jeho praotce, a bude vládnout navěky. (Alleluja.);;126
Hle, já dívka páně, * ať se mi stane podle tvého slova. (Alleluja.);;147

[Ant Vespera] (tempore paschali et rubrica cisterciensis)
Alleluja, * alleluja, alleluja.

[Responsory Vespera 1] (rubrica cisterciensis)
Responsorium. Zdrávas Maria, milostiplná, Pán s tebou: * Duch svatý na tebe sestoupí a moc Nejvyššího tě zastíní: a to Svaté, co se z tebe narodí, se bude nazývat Syn Boží. (Alleluja.)
V. Jakpak se to stane, vždyť muže nepoznávám? I Anděl odpověděl a řekl jí: 
R. Duch svatý na tebe sestoupí a moc Nejvyššího tě zastíní: a to Svaté, co se z tebe narodí, se bude nazývat Syn Boží. (Alleluja.)

[Versum 1]
V. Zdrávas Maria, milostiplná. (Alleluja.)
R. Pán s tebou. (Alleluja.)

[Versum 1] (rubrica cisterciensis)
V. Anděl Páně zvěstoval Marii. (Alleluja.)
R. A ona počala z Ducha Svatého. (Alleluja.)

[Ant 1]
The Holy Ghost * shall come upon thee, O Mary, and the power of the Highest shall overshadow thee. (Alleluia.)

[Ant 1] (rubrica cisterciensis)
Hle, počneš * ve svém lůně, a porodíš Syna, a dáš mu jméno Ježíš: on bude veliký, a bude se nazývat Syn Nejvyššího. (Alleluja.)

[Oratio]
Bože, jenž jsi z lůna blahoslavené Panny Marie jako své Slovo, jak to zvěstoval Anděl, chtěl přijmouti tělo; dej nám, kteří tě prosíme, abychom, když věříme, že vpravdě byla Rodičkou Boží, obdrželi její pomoc a přímluvy u tebe.
$Per eumdem

[Invit]
Hail, Mary, full of grace * the Lord is with thee. (Alleluia.)

[Ant Matutinum 12]
The Angel of the Lord * announced unto Mary, and she conceived of the Holy Spirit. (Alleluia.)

[Nocturn 1 Versum] (rubrica cisterciensis)
V. Zdrávas Maria, milostiplná. (Alleluja.) 
R. Pán s tebou. (Alleluja.) 

[Nocturn 2 Versum] (rubrica cisterciensis)
@Commune/C11

[Nocturn 3 Versum] (rubrica cisterciensis)
@Commune/C11

[Lectio1]
Lesson from the book of Isaias
@Tempora/Adv1-6:Lectio3

[Responsory1]
R. The angel Gabriel was sent to Mary, a Virgin espoused to Joseph, to bring unto her the word of the Lord and when the Virgin saw the light she was afraid. Fear not, Mary, for thou hast found grace from the Lord.
* Behold, thou shalt conceive and bring forth a son, and He shall be called the Son of the Highest. (Alleluia.)
V. The Lord God shall give unto Him the throne of His father David, and He shall reign over the house of Jacob for ever.
R. Behold, thou shalt conceive and bring forth a son, and He shall be called the Son of the Highest. (Alleluia.)

[Lectio2]
!Isa 11:1-5
1 And there shall come forth a rod out of the root of Jesse, and a flower shall rise up out of his root.
2 And the spirit of the Lord shall rest upon him: the spirit of wisdom, and of understanding, the spirit of counsel, and of fortitude, the spirit of knowledge, and of godliness.
3 And he shall be filled with the spirit of the fear of the Lord. He shall not judge according to the sight of the eyes, nor reprove according to the hearing of the ears.
4 But he shall judge the poor with justice, and shall reprove with equity for the meek of the earth: and he shall strike the earth with the rod of his mouth, and with the breath of his lips he shall slay the wicked.
5 And justice shall be the girdle of his loins: and faith the girdle of his reins.

[Responsory2]
R. Hail, Mary, full of grace; the Lord is with thee;
* The Holy Ghost shall come upon thee, and the power of the Highest shall overshadow thee therefore also that Holy Thing Which shall be born of thee shall be called the Son of God. (Alleluia.)
V. How shall this be, seeing I know not a man? And the Angel answered and said unto her,
R. The Holy Ghost shall come upon thee, and the power of the Highest shall overshadow thee; therefore also that Holy Thing Which shall be born of thee shall be called the Son of God. (Alleluia.)

[Responsory3]
R. Receive, O Virgin Mary, receive the word of the Lord, which is sent thee by His Angel; thou shalt conceive, and shalt bring forth God and Man together.
* And thou shalt be called blessed among all women. (Alleluia.) 
V. Thou shalt bring forth a son, and remain a maiden undefiled; thou shalt conceive and be a Mother, still Virgin unspotted.
R. And thou shalt be called blessed among all women. (Alleluia.) 
&Gloria
R. And thou shalt be called blessed among all women. (Alleluia.)

[Lectio4]
From the Sermons of Pope St. Leo (the Great.)
!2nd for Christmas
The Almighty and merciful God, Whose nature is goodness, Whose will is power, and Whose work is mercy, did, at the very beginning of the world, as soon as the devil's hatred had mortally poisoned us with the venom of his envy, foretell those remedies which His mercy had foreordained for our healing. He bade the serpent know that there was to be a Seed of the woman Who should yet bruise the swelling of his pestilential head; this Seed was none other than the Christ to come in the flesh, that God and Man in one Person, Who, being born of a Virgin, should, by His undefiled birth, damn the seducer of man.

[Responsory4]
R. Behold, the Virgin shall conceive, and bear a son, saith the Lord;
* And His name shall be called Wonderful, the Mighty God. (Alleluia.)
V. He shall sit upon the throne of David, and upon his kingdom for ever.
R. And His name shall be called Wonderful, the Mighty God. (Alleluia.)

[Lectio5]
The devil rejoiced that by his fraud he had so deceived man as to make him lose the gifts of God, forfeit his privilege of eternal life, bring himself under the hard sentence of death, and find in his misery a certain comfort in the accomplice of his guilt; he rejoiced also that God, in His just anger, was changed towards man, whom He had made in such honour. But, dearly beloved brethren, that Unchangeable God, Whose Will cannot be divorced from His goodness, by His own secret counsel carried out in a mysterious way His original purpose of goodness, and man, who had been led into sin by the wicked craft of the devil, perished not to disappoint that gracious purpose of God.

[Responsory5]
R. There shall come forth a rod out of the stem of Jesse, and a Flower shall grow out of his roots.
* And righteousness shall be the girdle of his loins, and faithfulness the girdle of his reins. (Alleluia.)
V. And the Spirit of the Lord shall rest upon him, the Spirit of wisdom and understanding, the Spirit of counsel and might.
R. And righteousness shall be the girdle of his loins, and faithfulness the girdle of his reins. (Alleluia.)

[Lectio6]
Then therefore, dearly beloved brethren, the fulness of that time came, which God had appointed for our Redemption, our Lord Jesus Christ entered this lower world, came down from His heavenly throne, and, while He left not that glory which He hath with the Father before the world was, was incarnate by a new order and a new birth new, in that He Who is Invisible among His own, was made visible among us; He Who is Incomprehensible, willed to be comprehended; He Who is before the ages, began to be in time; the Lord of all shadowed the glory of His Majesty, and took upon Him the form of a servant; the Impassible God vouchsafed to become a man subject to suffering; and the Immortal laid Himself under the laws of death.

[Responsory6]
R. O Mary, how holy and how spotless is thy virginity! I am too dull to praise thee:
* For thou hast borne in thy breast Him Whom the heavens cannot contain. (Alleluia.) 
V. Blessed art thou among women, and blessed is the fruit of thy womb.
R. For thou hast borne in thy breast Him Whom the heavens cannot contain. (Alleluia.) 
&Gloria
R. For thou hast borne in thy breast Him Whom the heavens cannot contain. (Alleluia.) 

[Lectio7]
From the Holy Gospel according to Luke
!Luke 1:26-38
At that time the angel Gabriel was sent from God into a city of Galilee, called Nazareth, To a virgin espoused to a man whose name was Joseph, of the house of David; and the virgin's name was Mary. And so on.
_
Homily by St. Ambrose, Bishop (of Milan.)
!Bk. ii on Luke
The mysteries of God are unsearchable, and it is especially declared by a Prophet, that a man can hardly know His counsels. (Wisd. ix. 13.) Nevertheless, some things have been revealed to us, and we may gather from some of the words and works of the Lord our Saviour, that there was a special purpose of God, in the fact that she who was chosen to be the mother of the Lord was espoused to a man. Why did not the power of the Highest overshadow her before she was so espoused? Perhaps it was lest any might blasphemously say that she had conceived in fornication the Holy One.

[Responsory7]
R. Rejoice with me, all ye that love the Lord, for while I was yet a little one, I pleased the Most High.
* And I have brought forth from my bowels God and man. (Alleluia.)
V. All generations shall call me blessed, since the Lord hath regarded the lowliness of His handmaiden.
R. And I have brought forth from my bowels God and man. (Alleluia.)

[Lectio8]
And the angel came in unto her. Let us learn from this Virgin how to bear ourselves, let us learn her modesty, let us learn by her devout utterance, above all let us learn by the holy mystery enacted. It is the part of a maiden to be timid, to avoid the advances of men, and to shrink from men's addresses. Would that our women would learn from the example of modesty here set before us. She upon whom the stare of men had never been fixed was alone in her chamber, and was found only by an angel. There was neither companion nor witness there, that what passed might not be debased in gossip and the angel saluted her.

[Responsory8]
R. Rejoice, O Mary, by whose mighty hand the Church hath victory o'er her foes achieved, since thou to Gabriel's word of quickening power in lowliness hast listened, and believed;
* Thou, still a virgin, in thy blessed womb hast God Incarnate of thy flesh conceived, and, still of heaven, of that virginity remainest after childbirth unbereaved. (Alleluia.)
V. Blessed art thou that hast believed, for there is a performance of those things which were told thee from the Lord.
R. Thou, still a virgin, in thy blessed womb hast God Incarnate of thy flesh conceived, and, still of heaven, of that virginity remainest after childbirth unbereaved. (Alleluia.)
&Gloria
R. Thou, still a virgin, in thy blessed womb hast God Incarnate of thy flesh conceived, and, still of heaven, of that virginity remainest after childbirth unbereaved. (Alleluia.)

[Lectio9]
The message of God to the Virgin was a mystery, which it was not lawful for the mouth of men, but only of angels, to utter. For the first time on earth the words are spoken The Holy Ghost shall come upon thee. The holy maiden heareth, and believeth. At length she saith Behold the handmaid of the Lord be it unto me according to thy word. Here is an example of lowliness, here is a pattern of true devotion. At the very moment that she is told she is chosen to be the mother of the Lord she at once declareth herself His handmaid. The knowledge that she was Mother of God caused in the heart of Mary only an act of humility.
&teDeum

[Ant Laudes]
Poslán byl * Anděl Gabriel k Panně Marii, zasnoubené Josefovi. (Alleluja.)
Zdrávas, Maria, * milostiplná, Pán s tebou; požehnaná jsi mezi ženami. (Alleluja.)
Neboj se, Maria, * nalezla jsi milost u Hospodina; hle, počneš a porodíš syna. (Alleluia.)
Dá mu Hospodin * trůn Davidův, jeho praotce, a bude vládnout navěky. (Alleluja.)
Hle, já dívka páně, * ať se mi stane podle tvého slova. (Alleluja.)

[Ant Laudes] (tempore paschali et rubrica cisterciensis)
Allelúia, * allelúia, allelúia.

[Capitulum Laudes]
!Isa 7:14-15
v. Hle, panna počne a porodí syna, a dá mu jméno Emmanuel. Bude jíst máslo a med, a bude umět odmítnout zlo a zvolit dobro.
$Deo gratias

[Versum 2] (rubrica cisterciensis)
V. Zdrávas Maria, milostiplná. (Alleluja.)
R. Pán s tebou. (Alleluja.)

[Ant 2]
How shall this be, * thou Angel of God, seeing I know not a man? Hear, O Virgin Mary: the Holy Ghost shall come upon thee, and the power of the Highest shall overshadow thee. (Alleluia.)

[Ant 2] (rubrica cisterciensis)
Vzdejde hůl * z kořene Jesse, a celá země bude naplněna slávou Páně, a každé tělo uzří spásu Boží. (Alleluja, alleluja.) 

[Lectio Prima]
!Isa 11:1-2
v. Vyrazí ratolest z pahýlu Jesse, výhonek vypučí z jeho kořenů, spočine na něm duch Hospodinův: duch moudrosti a rozumu, duch rady a síly, duch poznání a bázně před Hospodinem.

[Capitulum Sexta]
!Lukáš 1:32-33
v. Bude veliký a bude nazván Synem Nejvyššího. Pán Bůh mu dá trůn jeho předka Davida, bude kralovat nad Jakubovým rodem navěky a jeho království nebude mít konce.
$Deo gratias

[Ant 3]
The Angel Gabriel said unto Mary: Hail, thou that art full of grace, * the Lord is with thee; blessed art thou among women. (Alleluia.)

[Ant 3] (rubrica cisterciensis)
Duch svatý * v tebe sestoupí‚ Maria, neboj se, budeš mít v lůně Syna Božího. (Alleluja.)