[Officium]
Nalezení Svatého Kříže

[Ant Vespera]
O what a work of love was that * when Life and death died together upon the Tree. (Alleluia.)
Save us, * O Christ the Saviour, save us through the might of thy Cross Thou Who didst save Peter when he was ready to sink in the sea, have mercy upon us. (Alleluia.)
Behold, the Cross of the Lord! * fly, ye ranks of the adversary! The Lion of the tribe of Judah, the Root of David, hath prevailed. Alleluia.
But us it behoveth to glory * in the Cross of our Lord Jesus Christ. (Alleluia.)
By thy Cross' holy sign, * Jesus, guard this soul of mine from my ghostly enemy. (Alleluia.)

[Ant Vespera] (rubrica cisterciensis)
Alleluja, * alleluja, alleluja.

[Versum 1]
V. Toto znamení Kříže bude na nebi. (Alleluja.)
R. Až Pán přijde jako soudce. (Alleluja.)

[Ant 1]
Ó Kříži, * zářivější než všechny hvězdy, slavnější než svět, lidem velmi milý, svatý více než vše na světě; ty jediný jsi byl hoden nést to nejlepší na světě; sladké dřevo, sladké hřeby, nesly sladké břemeno, uzdrav zástup zde stojící, shromážděný ke tvé chvále. (Alleluja, alleluja.)

[Ant 1] (rubrica cisterciensis)
Ó požehnaný Kříži! * neboť na tobě visel Spasitel světa, a v tobě zvítězil Král Andělů, alleluja.

[Oratio]
Bože, jenž jsi v přeslavném Nalezení spásonosného Kříže povzbudil zázraky svého utrpení; uděl, abychom cenou tohoto životodárného dřeva, dosáhli udělení věčného života.
$Qui vivis

[Invit]
Christ crucified is our King. * O come, let us worship Him. (Alleluia.)

[Ant Matutinum]
All the earth this day * is making glad memorial of the finding of the Cross, whose light is streaming over every land and people. Alleluia.;;1
;;2
;;3
Lo, the Cross's happy triumph, fraught with healing of diseases, Tree whereon the True Life dying trampled down the death of all men. Alleluia;;4
;;5
;;8
We adore thee, O Christ, and we bless thee, because that through thy Cross Thou hast redeemed the world. Alleluia;;95
;;96
;;97
V. Let all the earth worship thee, and sing unto thee. Alleluia.
R. Let them sing praises to thy Name, O Lord. Alleluia.

[Lectio1]
Lesson from the letter of St. Paul the Apostle to the Galatians
!Gal 3:10-14
10 For as many as are of the works of the law, are under a curse. For it is written: Cursed is every one, that abideth not in all things, which are written in the book of the law to do them.
11 But that in the law no man is justified with God, it is manifest: because the just man liveth by faith.
12 But the law is not of faith: but, He that doth those things, shall live in them.
13 Christ hath redeemed us from the curse of the law, being made a curse for us: for it is written: Cursed is every one that hangeth on a tree:
14 That the blessing of Abraham might come on the Gentiles through Christ Jesus: that we may receive the promise of the Spirit by faith.

[Responsory1]
R. Lo the Church, with solemn gladness, hails the day for ever glorious, when the opening earth revealeth that dread tree of mystic triumph.
* On whose boughs her dying Saviour shattered death and crushed the serpent. (Alleluia, Alleluia, Alleluia.)
V. He the Word of God eternal, on those stately branches hanging, hath for us a new way opened.
R. On whose boughs her dying Saviour shattered death and crushed the serpent. (Alleluia, Alleluia, Alleluia.)

[Lectio2]
From the letter to the Philippines
!Phil 2:5-11
5 For let this mind be in you, which was also in Christ Jesus:
6 Who being in the form of God, thought it not robbery to be equal with God:
7 But emptied himself, taking the form of a servant, being made in the likeness of men, and in habit found as a man.
8 He humbled himself, becoming obedient unto death, even to the death of the cross.
9 For which cause God also hath exalted him, and hath given him a name which is above all names:
10 That in the name of Jesus every knee should bow, of those that are in heaven, on earth, and under the earth:
11 And that every tongue should confess that the Lord Jesus Christ is in the glory of God the Father.

[Responsory2]
R. Faithful Cross, above all other, one and only noble tree None in foliage, none in blossom, none in fruit thy peers may be
* Sweetest wood and sweetest iron, Sweetest weight is hung on thee. (Alleluia.)
V. Thou art higher than all cedars.
R. Sweetest wood, and sweetest iron, Sweetest weight is hung on thee. (Alleluia.)

[Lectio3]
From the letter to the Colossians.
!Col 2:9-15
9 For in him dwelleth all the fulness of the Godhead corporeally;
10 And you are filled in him, who is the head of all principality and power:
11 In whom also you are circumcised with circumcision not made by hand, in despoiling of the body of the flesh, but in the circumcision of Christ:
12 Buried with him in baptism, in whom also you are risen again by the faith of the operation of God, who hath raised him up from the dead.
13 And you, when you were dead in your sins, and the uncircumcision of your flesh; he hath quickened together with him, forgiving you all offences:
14 Blotting out the handwriting of the decree that was against us, which was contrary to us. And he hath taken the same out of the way, fastening it to the cross:
15 And despoiling the principalities and powers, he hath exposed them confidently in open show, triumphing over them in himself.

[Responsory3]
R. This is that noble tree, planted in the midst of the garden
* Whereon the Author of our salvation did by His Own death openly triumph over the death of all men. (Alleluia, Alleluia.)
V. Even the Cross, whereof the glory is so excellent, and whereafter Helen, the mother of Constantine, did so diligently search until she found it.
R. Whereon the Author of our salvation did by His Own death openly triumph over the death of all men. (Alleluia, Alleluia.)
&Gloria
R. Whereon the Author of our salvation did by His Own death openly triumph over the death of all men. (Alleluia, Alleluia.)

[Lectio4]
After that famous victory which the Emperor Constantine gained over Maxentius, (in the year 312,) on the eve of which the banner of the Cross of the Lord had been given to him from heaven, Helen, the mother of Constantine, being warned in a dream, came to Jerusalem, (in 326,) to seek for the Cross. There it was her care to cause to be overthrown the marble statue of Venus, which had stood on Calvary for about one hundred and eighty years, and which had originally been put there to desecrate and destroy the memorial of the sufferings of the Lord Christ. The like work Helen did at Bethlehem, by cleansing from an image of Adonis the stable where the Saviour was born, and from an idol of Jupiter, the place where He had arisen from the dead.

[Responsory4]
R. But us it behoveth to glory in the Cross of our Lord Jesus Christ, in Whom is our salvation, life, and resurrection
* Who hath saved us and redeemed us. (Alleluia.)
V. O Lord, we worship thy Cross, and make memorial of thy glorious passion.
R. Who hath saved us and redeemed us. (Alleluia.)

[Lectio5]
Then she had thus cleansed the place where the Cross had stood, Helen caused deep excavations to be made, which resulted in the discovery of three crosses, and, apart from them, the writing which had been nailed on that of the Lord. But which of the crosses had been His was unknown, and was only manifested by a miracle. Macarius, Bishop of Jerusalem, after offering solemn prayers to God, touched with each of the three a woman who was afflicted with a grievous disease. The two first had no effect, but at the touch of the third she was immediately healed.

[Responsory5]
R. The Relique true from heaven revealed, hath now the Gospel's figure sealed
* As by the serpent Moses reared, so by the Cross the sick are healed. (Alleluia, alleluia.)
V. When the dead touch the Cross they arise, and the wonderful works of God are made manifest.
R. As by the serpent Moses reared, so by the Cross the sick are healed. (Alleluia, alleluia.)

[Lectio6]
Helen, after she had found the life-giving Cross, built over the site of the Passion a Church of extraordinary splendour, wherein she deposited part of the Cross, shut up in a silver case. Another part which she gave to her son, Constantine, was laid up in the Church of the Holy Cross of Jerusalem, which he built at Rome on the site of the Sessorian Palace. She also gave to her son the nails with which the Most Holy Body of Jesus Christ had been pierced. Constantine established a law abolishing the punishment of crucifixion for all time coming and thenceforth what had hitherto been a hissing and a curse among men, began to be esteemed worshipful and glorious.

[Responsory6]
R. This Sign of the Cross shall be in heaven, when the Lord cometh to judgment.
* Then shall the secrets of our hearts be made manifest. (Alleluia, alleluia.)
V. When the Son of Man shall sit in the throne of His glory, and shall begin to judge the world by fire.
R. Then shall the secrets of our hearts be made manifest. (Alleluia, alleluia.)
&Gloria
R. Then shall the secrets of our hearts be made manifest. (Alleluia, alleluia.)

[Lectio7]
From the Holy Gospel according to John
!John 3:1-15
At that time There was a man of the Pharisees named Nicodemus, a ruler of the Jews. The same came to Jesus by night, and said unto Him Rabbi, we know that Thou art a Teacher come from God. And so on.
_
Homily by St. Augustine, Bishop of Hippo
!11th Tract on John.
Nicodemus was one of them which believed in the Name of Jesus, when they saw the signs and wonders which He did. So hath John given us to understand a few words before our text: „Now when He was in Jerusalem at the Passover, in the feast-day, many believed in His Name“ And wherefore did they believe in His Name John telleth us immediately: „When they saw the miracles which He did.“ And now, what saith he touching Nicodemus? „There was a man of the Pharisees, named Nicodemus, a ruler of the Jews. The same came to Jesus by night, and said unto Him Rabbi, we know that Thou art a Teacher come from God.“ Nicodemus therefore believed in His Name. And why did he believe He saith „ For no man can do these miracles that Thou doest, except God be with him.“

[Responsory7]
R. Sweetest wood and sweetest iron, Sweetest weight is hung on thee
* Thou alone wast counted worthy this world's ransom to uphold. (Alleluia.)
V. The sign of the Cross shall be in heaven when the Lord cometh to judgment.
R. Thou alone wast counted worthy this world's ransom to uphold. (Alleluia.)

[Lectio8]
Lo, then, Nicodemus was one of the many which had believed in His Name, let us seek to find in Nicodemus why „Jesus did not commit Himself unto them“ „Jesus answered and said unto him Amen, Amen, I say unto thee except a man be born again, he cannot see the kingdom of God.“ Jesus therefore committeth Himself unto such as be born again. Behold, Nicodemus and they that were with him believed in Jesus, but Jesus did not commit Himself unto them. Just so are all Catechumens they believe in the Name of Christ, but Jesus hath not yet committed Himself unto them. Now I trust ye will be good enough to pay attention, and understand what I am going to say. If ye ask of a Catechumen „ Dost thou believe in Christ „ he saith „ I believe,“ and he signeth himself with the sign of the Cross. The Cross of his Lord is marked upon his forehead, and he is not ashamed of it. Behold, he believeth in the Name of Christ. But let us ask him „ Dost thou eat the flesh of the Son of Man „ and he knoweth not what we mean, for Jesus hath not yet committed Himself unto him.

[Responsory8]
R. As Moses lifted up the serpent in the wilderness, even so must the Son of Man be lifted up
* That whosoever believeth in Him should not perish, but have everlasting life. (Alleluia.)
V. God sent not His Son into the world to condemn the world, but that the world through Him might be saved.
R. That whosoever believeth in Him should not perish, but have everlasting life. (Alleluia.)
&Gloria
R. That whosoever believeth in Him should not perish, but have everlasting life. (Alleluia.)

[Lectio93]
!Commemoration of Pope Alexander
Alexander was a Roman, who ruled the Church during the reign of the Emperor Hadrian. He turned to Christ a great number of the Roman nobility. He ordained that nothing but bread and wine should be offered at the mystery, but that some water should be mingled with the wine, in memory of the Blood and Water Which flowed from the Side of Jesus Christ. He added to the Canon of the Mass the words „ Who, the night before He suffered.“ He also ordained that blessed water mingled with salt, should be kept always in Churches, and should be used in private rooms to scare away devils. He sat in the throne of Peter ten years, five months, and twenty days. He hath great renown on account of the holiness of his life, and the usefulness of his institutions. He was crowned with martyrdom, (in the year 119,) together with the Priests Eventius and Theodulus, and was buried beside the Nomentan Way, at the third mile-stone from the city, in the same place where he had been beheaded. During his Popedom he held diverse Advent ordinations, and at them ordained six Priests, two Deacons, and five Bishops for diverse places. The bodies of these three Martyrs, Alexander, Eventius, and Theodulus, were afterwards brought into the city, and buried in the Church of St. Sabina. On this day likewise, (about the year 367,) occurred the blessed death of Juvenal, the holy Bishop of Narni, who by the holiness of his life and teaching, became the father in Christ of so many of the dwellers in that city. He fell asleep very peacefully, with great fame for miracles, and was there honourably buried.
&teDeum

[Capitulum Laudes]
!Filipanům 2:5-7
v. Bratři, mějte v sobě to smýšlení, jaké měl Kristus Ježíš: který ačkoli měl božskou přirozenost, nic nelpěl na tom, že je rovný Bohu, ale sám sebe se zřekl, vzal na sebe přirozenost služebníka a stal se jako jedním z lidí. Vypadal jako každý jiný člověk.
$Deo gratias.

[Versum 2]
V. Klaníme se ti, Kriste, a dobrořečíme ti. (Alleluja.)
R. Neboť skrze svůj kříž jsi vykoupil svět. (Alleluja.)

[Ant 2]
Nade všechno * dřevo z cedru ty jediný jsi vznešenější, neboť na tobě visel Život světa, na tobě Kristus zvítězil a smrtí smrt přemohl navěky. (Alleluia.)

[Lectio Prima]
!Phil 2:8-9
v. Ponížil sám sebe a byl poslušný až k smrti, a to k smrti na kříži. Proto ho také Bůh povýšil a dal mu Jméno nad každé jiné jméno.

[Responsory Breve Tertia]
R.br. Toto znamení Kříže bude na nebi, * Alleluja, alleluja.
R. Toto znamení Kříže bude na nebi, * Alleluja, alleluja.
V. Až Pán přijde jako soudce.
R. Alleluja, alleluja.
&Gloria
R. Toto znamení Kříže bude na nebi, * Alleluja, alleluja.
_
V. Klaníme se ti, Kriste, a dobrořečíme ti, alleluja.
R. Neboť svým Křížem jsi vykoupil svět, alleluja.

[Capitulum Sexta]
!Gal 6:14
v. Ať je daleko ode mě, abych se chlubil něčím jiným než křížem našeho Pána Ježíše Krista, kterým je pro mě ukřižován svět a já světu.
$Deo gratias

[Responsory Breve Sexta]
R.br. Klaníme se ti, Kriste, a dobrořečíme ti: * Alleluja, alleluja.
R. Klaníme se ti, Kriste, a dobrořečíme ti: * Alleluja, alleluja.
V. Neboť svým Křížem jsi vykoupil svět.
R. Alleluja, alleluja.
&Gloria
R. Klaníme se ti, Kriste, a dobrořečíme ti: * Alleluja, alleluja.
_
V. Celá země ať se ti klaní a zpívá tobě, alleluja.
R. Chválu ať pronáší tvému jménu, Pane, alleluja.

[Capitulum Nona]
@:Lectio Prima
$Deo gratias

[Responsory Breve Nona]
R.br. Celá země ať se ti klaní a zpívá tobě, * Allelúja, allelúja.
R. Celá země ať se ti klaní a zpívá tobě, * Allelúja, allelúja.
V. Chválu ať pronáší tvému jménu, Pane.
R. Allelúja, allelúja.
&Gloria
R. Celá země ať se ti klaní a zpívá tobě, * Allelúja, allelúja.
_
V. Toto znamení Kříže bude na nebi, alleluja.
R. Až Pán přijde jako soudce, alleluja.

[Ant 3]
Jesus, our triumphant Head, * on the cross' ransom dread, the hands of power and mercy spread, that broke the prison of the dead. Alleluia.

[Ant 3] (rubrica cisterciensis)
Ó Kříži, zářivější * než všechny hvězdy, slavnější než svět, lidem velmi milý, svatý více než vše na světě; ty jediný jsi byl hoden nést to nejlepší na světě; sladké dřevo, sladké hřeby, nesly sladké břemeno, uzdrav zástup zde stojící, shromážděný ke tvé chvále. (Alleluja, alleluja, alleluja.)
