[Officium]
sv. Apoštolů Petra a Pavla

[Ant Vespera]
Petr a Jan * šli nahoru do chrámu na modlitby v devět hodin.
Stříbro a zlato * nemám, avšak co mám, to ti dám.
Řekl Anděl Petrovi: * Obleč se a následuj mě.
Poslal Pán * svého Anděla, a ten mě vysvobodil z rukou Herodových, alleluja.
Ty jsi Petr, <i>skála,</i> * a na této skále vybudují svou Církev.

[Responsory Vespera 1] (rubrica cisterciensis)
Responsorium. Setník Kornelius, muž zbožný a bohabojný, viděl jasně Anděla, který se mu zjevil a řekl mu: * Kornelie, pošli pro Šimona, kterému se říká Petr; on ti řekne, co je třeba, abys udělal.
V. Když se Kornelius modlil, ještě ani nebyl znovu zrozen v Kristu, zjevil se mu Anděl, a řekl:
R. Kornelie, pošli pro Šimona, kterému se říká Petr; on ti řekne, co je třeba, abys udělal.

[Hymnus Vespera]
v. Zlatavým světlem přioděným v rudou zář,
Nad všechna světla, celý svět jsi prozářil,
Ozdobil nebe přeslavným umučením,
Tento svatý den, jenž dá hříšným spasení.
_
Klíčník nebeský a s ním světa Učitel,
Soudcové země, pravá světla planety,
Jeden na kříži, druhý mečem zvítězil,
Vládu života s věncem slávy dostali.
_
Ty šťastný Říme, oblečený v rudý plášť
převzácné krve knížat dvou, nám drahých zvlášť,
ne slova tvoje, ale jejich zásluh jas
se větší krásou skví než celý vesmír náš.
_
Buď Otci sláva po věků věk nesmírný,
buď Tobě, Synu, vláda, vždy ať dík ti zní,
Svatému Duchu budiž stejná moc a čest,
Trojici Boží ať vzdávána věčně jest.
Amen.

[HymnusM Vespera]
@:Hymnus Vespera

[Oratio]
Bože, jenž jsi dnešní den posvětil umučením svých Apoštolů Petras a Pavla; dej své Církvi, aby vždy následovala jejich příkazy, z nichž povstala naše zbožnost.
$Per Dominum

[Commemoratio] (rubrica cisterciensis)
!Připomínka všech svatých Apoštolů
@Commune/C1:Oratio proper
v. Bože, jenž jsi nám skrze své blažené Apoštoly udělil přijíti k poznání tvého jména; dej nám s prospěchem oslavovat jejich většinou slávu, a v oslavách získat prospěch.
$Per Dominum

[Lectio1]
Lesson from the Acts of the Apostles
!Acts 3:1-5
1 Now Peter and John went up into the temple at the ninth hour of prayer.
2 And a certain man who was lame from his mother's womb, was carried: whom they laid every day at the gate of the temple, which is called Beautiful, that he might ask alms of them that went into the temple.
3 He, when he had seen Peter and John about to go into the temple, asked to receive an alms.
4 But Peter with John fastening his eyes upon him, said: Look upon us.
5 But he looked earnestly upon them, hoping that he should receive something of them.

[Lectio2]
!Acts 3:6-10
6 But Peter said: Silver and gold I have none; but what I have, I give thee: In the name of Jesus Christ of Nazareth, arise, and walk.
7 And taking him by the right hand, he lifted him up, and forthwith his feet and soles received strength.
8 And he leaping up, stood, and walked, and went in with them into the temple, walking, and leaping, and praising God.
9 And all the people saw him walking and praising God.
10 And they knew him, that it was he who sat begging alms at the Beautiful gate of the temple: and they were filled with wonder and amazement at that which had happened to him.

[Lectio3]
!Acts 3:11-16
11 And as he held Peter and John, all the people ran to them to the porch which is called Solomon's, greatly wondering.
12 But Peter seeing, made answer to the people: Ye men of Israel, why wonder you at this? or why look you upon us, as if by our strength or power we had made this man to walk?
13 The God of Abraham, and the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob, the God of our fathers, hath glorified his Son Jesus, whom you indeed delivered up and denied before the face of Pilate, when he judged he should be released.
14 But you denied the Holy One and the Just, and desired a murderer to be granted unto you.
15 But the author of life you killed, whom God hath raised from the dead, of which we are witnesses.
16 And in the faith of his name, this man, whom you have seen and known, hath his name strengthened; and the faith which is by him, hath given this perfect soundness in the sight of you all.

[Lectio4]
From the Sermons of Pope St. Leo the Great
!First for the Birthday of the Holy Apostles Peter and Paul
Dearly beloved brethren, in the joy of all the holy Feast-days the whole world is partaker. There is but one love of God, and whatsoever is solemnly called to memory, if it hath been done for the salvation of all, must needs be worth the honour of a joyful memorial at the hands of all. Nevertheless, this feast which we are keeping today, besides that world-wide worship which it doth of right get throughout all the earth, doth deserve from this city of ours an outburst of gladness altogether special and our own. In this place it was that the two chiefest of the Apostles did so right gloriously finish their race. And upon this day whereon they lifted up that their last testimony, let it be in this place that the memory thereof receiveth the chiefest of jubilant celebrations. O Rome, these twain are the men who brought the light of the Gospel of Christ to shine upon thee! These are they by whom thou, from being the teacher of lies, wast turned into a learner of the truth.

[Responsory4]
R. Lord, if it be Thou, bid me come unto thee on the water;
* And Jesus stretched forth His Hand, and caught him, and said unto him: O thou of little faith, wherefore didst thou doubt?
V. But when he saw the wind boisterous, he was afraid and, beginning to sink, he cried, saying: Lord, save me!
R. And Jesus stretched forth His Hand, and caught him, and said unto him: O thou of little faith, wherefore didst thou doubt?

[Lectio5]
These twain be thy fathers, these be in good sooth thy shepherds, these twain be they who laid for thee, as touching the kingdom of heaven, better and happier foundations, than did they that first planned thine earthly ramparts, wherefrom he that gave thee thy name took occasion to pollute thee with a brother's blood. These are they who have set on thine head this thy glorious crown, that thou art become an holy nation, a chosen people, a city both Priestly and Kingly, whom the Sacred Throne of blessed Peter hath exalted till thou art become the Lady of the world, unto whom the world-wide love for God hath conceded a broader lordship than is the possession of any mere earthly empire. Thou wast once waxen great by victories, until thy power was spread haughtily over land and sea, but thy power was narrower then which the toils of war had won for thee, than that thou now hast which hath been laid at thy feet by the peace of Christ.

[Responsory5]
R. Arise, O Peter! Cast thy garment about thee, gird thee with strength for the saving of the nations.
* The chains are fallen off from thine hands.
V. The Angel of the Lord came upon him, and a light shined in the prison and he smote Peter on the side and raised him up, saying: Arise up quickly.
R. The chains are fallen off from thine hands.

[Lectio6]
It well suited for the doing of the work which God had decreed that the multitude of kingdoms should be bound together under one rule, and that so the universal preaching of the Gospel should find easier entry into all peoples, since all were governed by the empire of one city. But this city, knowing not Him, Who had been pleased to make her great, used her lordship over almost all nations to make herself the minister of all their falsehoods and seemed to herself exceeding godly because there was no false god whom she rejected. But the tighter that Satan had bound her, the more wondrous was the work of Christ in setting her free.

[Responsory6]
@Sancti/02-22:Responsory4
&Gloria
R. Therefore unto thee hath He given the keys of the kingdom of heaven.

[Lectio7]
From the Holy Gospel according to Matthew
!Matt 16:13-19
At that time: Jesus came into the coasts of Caesarea Philippi, and He asked His disciples, saying: Who do men say that I, the Son of man, am? And so on.
_
Homily by St. Jerome, Priest (at Bethlehem.)
!Bk. iii Comment. on Matth. xvi
Who do men say that I, the Son of man, am? This question is well put, for they who speak of Him as the Son of man are men, while they that know of Him that He is God are called not men but gods. And they said: Some say that Thou art John the Baptist, some, Elias. I marvel that some commentators have thought it worth their while to search into the origin of each of these blunders, and to engage in a discussion of weary length as to why some thought that our Lord Jesus Christ was John the Baptist, some, Elias and others, Jeremias, or one of the Prophets. Their blunders concerning Elias and Jeremias were but of a piece with Herod's concerning John the Baptist It is John, whom I beheaded he is risen from the dead and therefore mighty works do show forth themselves in him. (Mark vi. 16, 14.)

[Responsory7]
R. Peter, I have prayed for thee, that thy faith fail not;
* And when thou art converted, strengthen thy brethren.
V. Flesh and blood hath not revealed it unto thee, but My Father Which is in heaven.
R. And when thou art converted, strengthen thy brethren.

[Lectio8]
But who say ye that I am? Mark, discreet reader, from the context, that a distinction is here drawn between the Apostles and mere men. The Apostles are called gods. Who, asketh the Lord, do men say that I am, but, on the other hand, who say ye that I am? They, being but men, deal in human speculations, but ye that are gods, who be ye persuaded that I am. And then Peter, as the representative of all the Apostles, uttered the testimony: Thou art the Christ, the Son of the living God. He calleth God living, to mark the difference between Him and all other that be called gods, and who are indeed dead.

[Responsory8]
@Sancti/02-22:Responsory7
&Gloria
R. And I say unto thee, that thou art Peter, and upon this rock I will build My Church.

[Lectio9]
And Jesus answered and said unto him: Blessed art thou, Simon Bar-Jona. The Apostle having testified of the Lord, the Lord in turn testifieth of the Apostle. Peter had said: Thou art the Christ, the Son of the living God, and he received, in return for that his testimony to the truth, the words: Blessed art thou, Simon Bar-Jona. Why, blessed? For flesh and blood hath not revealed it unto thee, but My Father. What flesh and blood could not reveal, the grace of the Holy Ghost had revealed. Meet for him therefore, because of his confession, is his name, as the name of one who hath revelation from the Holy Ghost, and therefore is called His son. Bar-Jona is, being interpreted, The-son-of-the-Dove.
&teDeum

[Ant Laudes] (rubrica cisterciensis)
Petře, miluješ mě? * Pas mé ovce. Ty víš, Pane, že tě miluji.
Naznačil Pán Petrovi, * jakou smrtí oslaví Boha.
Zavolal jsem tě, Petře, * aby neumdlévala tvá víra, a ty, až se jednou obrátíš, posiluj své bratry.
Když uviděl, * že přichází silný vítr, zalekl se, a když se začal potápět, zvolal a řekl: Pane, zachraň mě.
Ty jsi Petr, <i>skála,</i> * a na této skále vybudují svou Církev.

[Capitulum Laudes]
!Skutky 12:1-3
v.  Král Herodes poslal četu, aby zle zakročili proti některým z Církve. Janova bratra Jakuba dal popravit mečem. Když viděl, že se to Židům líbí, dal zatknout také Petra. 
$Deo gratias

[Hymnus Laudes]
v. Dobrý Pastýři, Petře, prosím, přijmi již, 
Prosících přání, a všech hříchů okovy
Rozbij tou mocí, jež ti byla svěřena,
Jíž vše v nebi otvíráš slovem, zavíráš.
_
Mudrci velký, Pavle, mravy nauč nás,
A naši mysl pokus se do nebe vznést;
Až dokonalost v plnosti obdržíme,
Když vyprázdníme, co zbytečně nosíme.
_
Svaté Trojici budiž sláva navěky,
Čest, moc a síla, také velký jásto náš;
V jednotě, v níž spočívá její vláda,
Od nepaměti, nyní i na vše věky.
Amen.

[HymnusM Laudes]
@:Hymnus Laudes

[Lectio Prima]
!Acts 12:11
v. Vtom přišel Petr k sobě a řekl: „Teď už vím jistě, že Pán poslal svého Anděla a vytrhl mě z Herodových rukou a ze všeho, na co čeká židovský lid.“

[Capitulum Sexta]
!Acts 12:5
v. Tak byl Petr hlídán ve vězení; Církev se však za něho bez přestání modlila k Bohu.
$Deo gratias

[Ant 3]
This is the day * whereon Simon Peter went up upon the gibbet of the cross, alleluia; this day did he, that holdeth the keys of the kingdom, depart hence with joy to be with Christ; this day did the Apostle Paul, the light of the whole world, bow his head, and for Christ's name's sake receive the crown of his testimony. Alleluia.

[Ant 3] (rubrica cisterciensis)
Blažený jsi, * Šimone, synu Jonášův, neboť tělo a krev ti toto neodhalily, nýbrž můj Otec, který je v nebesích, praví Pán.

[Commemoratio 3] (rubrica cisterciensis)
!Připomínka všech svatých Apoštolů
@Commune/C1:Oratio proper
v. Bože, jenž jsi nám skrze své blažené Apoštoly udělil přijíti k poznání tvého jména; dej nám s prospěchem oslavovat jejich většinou slávu, a v oslavách získat prospěch.
$Per Dominum

[Octava 1]
!Připomínka Oktávu svatých Apoštolů Petra a Pavla
Ant. Apoštol Petr a Pavel, Učitel Národů, oni nás naučili tvému zákonu, Pane.
_
V. Ustanovíš je knížaty nad celou zemí.
R. Pamětlivi budou tvého jména, Pane.
_
$Oremus
Bože, jenž jsi dnešní den posvětil umučením svých Apoštolů Petras a Pavla; dej své Církvi, aby vždy následovala jejich příkazy, z nichž povstala naše zbožnost.
$Per Dominum

[Octava 2]
!Připomínka Oktávu svatých Apoštolů Petra a Pavla
Ant. Slavná Knížata země, jak moc se za života do sebe zamilovali, že ani ve smrti nejsou rozděleni.
_
V. Do celé země vyšel zvuk jejich učení.
R. A do všech končin okrsku zemského jejich slova.
_
$Oremus.
Bože, jenž jsi dnešní den posvětil umučením svých Apoštolů Petras a Pavla; dej své Církvi, aby vždy následovala jejich příkazy, z nichž povstala naše zbožnost.
$Per Dominum
