[Officium]
Narození sv. Jana Křtitele

[Ant Vespera]
On sám půjde * před ním v duchu a síle Eliáše, aby Pánu připravil dokonalý lid.
Jan * je jeho jméno; víno a kořalku nepije, a mnozí se z jeho narození zaradují.
Elizabeth was barren and well stricken in years, * but from her womb was born John the Fore-runner of the Lord.
The child shall be great * in the sight of the Lord, for His hand is with him.
Nazarejský * se bude nazývat tento chlapec: víno ani kořalku nebude pít, a od narození nebude jíst nic nečistého.

[Ant Vespera] (rubrica cisterciensis)
On sám půjde * před ním v duchu a síle Eliáše, aby Pánu připravil dokonalý lid.
Jan * je jeho jméno; víno a kořalku nepije, a mnozí se z jeho narození zaradují.
Hlas volajícího * na poušti: Připravte cestu Páně, narovnejte stezky našeho Boha.
Mezi syny * z ženy nepovstal větší Jana Křtitele.
Nazarejský * se bude nazývat tento chlapec: víno ani kořalku nebude pít, a od narození nebude jíst nic nečistého.

[Responsory Vespera 1]
Responsorium. Mezi syny z ženy nepovstal větší Jana Křtitele: * On cestu Páně připravil na poušti.
V. Byl člověk poslaný od Boha, a jeho jméno bylo Jan.
R. On cestu Páně připravil na poušti.

[Hymnus Vespera]
v. Aby tvé slavné činy, svatý Jene,
sluhové tvoji mohli srdcem volným
radostně hlásat, nám rty poskvrněné
očisti od vin.
_
Z nebe je poslán Anděl s Boží zvěstí,
že budeš slavným synem otce svého,
kterému zjeví s jménem tvým běh příští
života tvého.
_
Ten ale váhá v Boží přislíbení
uvěřit, začež schopnost mluvy ztrácí,
až jemu teprv tvoje narození
dar řeči vrací.
_
Když odpočívals v lůně jako robě,
pocítils Vládce ve svatebním loži.
Tu obě matky zjeví, díky tobě,
tajemství Boží.
_
Ať tobě věčně, Bože trojjediný,
nejhlubší úctu vzdává celé nebe.
Nám vykoupeným odpusť všechny viny,
prosíme tebe. 
Amen.

[Versum 1]
V. Byl člověk poslaný od Boha.
R. Jehož jméno bylo Jan.

[Ant 1]
Když vstoupil * Zachariáš do chrámu Páně, zjevil se mu Anděl Gabriel, a stál po pravé straně oltáře kadidla.

[Oratio]
Bože, jenž jsi přítomný den učinil ctihodným díky narození svatého Jana; dej svým národům milost duchovních radostí, a mysli všech věřících veď po cestě věčné spásy.
$Per Dominum

[Invit]
The Lord, He is the King of His Fore-runner; * O come, let us worship Him.

[Hymnus Matutinum]
v. Thou, in thy childhood, to the desert caverns
Fleddest for refuge from the cities' turmoil,
Where the world's slander might not dim thy lustre,
Lonely abiding.
_
Camel's hair raiment clothed thy saintly members;
Leathern the girdle which thy loins encircled;
Locusts and honey, with the fountain-water,
Daily sustained thee.
_
Oft in past ages, seers with hearts expectant
Sang the far-distant advent of the day-star;
thine was the glory, as the world's Redeemer
First to proclaim him.
_
Far as the wide world reacheth, born of woman,
Holier was there none than John the Baptist;
Meetly in water laving him who cleanseth
Man from pollution.
_
Praise to the Father, to the Son begotten,
And to the Spirit, equal power possessing,
One God whose glory, through the lapse of ages,
Ever resoundeth.
Amen.

[Ant Matutinum]
Before I formed thee in the belly, I knew thee, * and before thou camest forth out of the womb, I sanctified thee.;;1
The Lord said unto me: Thou shalt go to all that I shall send thee; * fear not; and whatsoever I command thee, thou shalt speak.;;2
Be not afraid of their faces; * for I am with thee, saith the Lord.;;3
V. There was a man sent from God.
R. Whose name was John.
The Lord put forth His hand, and touched my mouth, * and the Lord ordained me a Prophet unto the nations.;;4
Behold, I have put My words in thy mouth; * see, I have this day set thee over the nations, and over the kingdoms.;;5
The Lord hath called me from the womb; * from the bowels of my mother hath He made mention of my name.;;8
V. Among them that are born of women there hath not risen a greater.
R. Than John the Baptist.
The Lord hath made my mouth * like a sharp sword; in the shadow of His hand hath He hid me.;;14
And now, saith the Lord That formed me from the womb * to be His servant: I will also give thee for a light to the Gentiles, that thou mayest be My salvation unto the end of the earth.;;20
Kings shall see, and princes shall arise, and worship the Lord thy God, Who hath chosen thee.;;33
V. Elizabeth, the wife of Zacharias, was the mother of a mighty man.
R. Even of John the Baptist, the Fore-runner of the Lord.

[Lectio1]
Lesson from the book of Jeremias
!Jer 1:1-5
1 The words of Jeremias the son of Helcias, of the priests that were in Anathoth, in the land of Benjamin.
2 The word of the Lord which came to him in the days of Josias the son of Amon king of Juda, in the thirteenth year of his reign.
3 And which came to him in the days of Joakim the son of Josias king of Juda, unto the end of the eleventh year of Sedecias the son of Josias king of Juda, even unto the carrying away of Jerusalem captive, in the fifth month.
4 And the word of the Lord came to me, saying:
5 Before I formed thee in the bowels of thy mother, I knew thee: and before thou camest forth out of the womb, I sanctified thee, and made thee a prophet unto the nations.

[Responsory1]
R. There was a man sent from God, whose name was John.
* The same came for a witness, to bear witness of the Light, to make ready a people prepared for the Lord.
V. John was in the wilderness, preaching the baptism of repentance.
R. The same came for a witness, to bear witness of the Light, to make ready a people prepared for the Lord.

[Lectio2]
!Jer 1:6-10
6 And I said: Ah, ah, ah, Lord God: behold, I cannot speak, for I am a child.
7 And the Lord said to me: Say not: I am a child: for thou shalt go to all that I shall send thee: and whatsoever I shall command thee, thou shalt speak.
8 Be not afraid at their presence: for I am with thee to deliver thee, saith the Lord.
9 And the Lord put forth his hand, and touched my mouth: and the Lord said to me: Behold I have given my words in thy mouth:
10 Lo, I have set thee this day over the nations, and over the kingdoms, to root up, and pull down, and to waste, and to destroy, and to build, and to plant.

[Responsory2]
R. Elizabeth, the wife of Zacharias, was the mother of a mighty man, even of John the Baptist, the Forerunner of the Lord,
* who made straight in the desert an highway for the Lord.
V. There was a man sent from God, whose name was John.
R. Who made straight in the desert an highway for the Lord.

[Lectio3]
!Jer 1:17-19
17 Thou therefore gird up thy loins, and arise, and speak to them all that I command thee. Be not afraid at their presence: for I will make thee not to fear their countenance.
18 For behold I have made thee this day a fortified city, and a pillar of iron, and a wall of brass, over all the land, to the kings of Juda, to the princes thereof, and to the priests, and to the people of the land.
19 And they shall fight against thee, and shall not prevail: for I am with thee, saith the Lord, to deliver thee.

[Responsory3]
R. Before I formed thee in the belly I knew thee; and before thou camest forth out of the womb I sanctified thee;
* And I ordained thee a Prophet unto the nations.
V. A man beloved of God and men, he was had in honour.
R. And I ordained thee a Prophet unto the nations.
&Gloria
R. And I ordained thee a Prophet unto the nations.

[Lectio4]
From the Sermons of St. Augustine, Bishop of Hippo.
!20th on the Saints.
Outside the most holy Birthday of the Lord, we find celebrated in the Gospel the birth of only one other, namely, that of the blessed Baptist, John. As regardeth all others among God's holy and chosen ones we know that that day is observed whereon, with their work finished, and the world conquered and finally trampled down, they were born from this into a better life, even one of everlasting blessedness. In others is honoured the crowning of the struggle on their last day of dying life, but in John is honoured the first day; in him the very beginning is found hallowed. And the reason of this is, without doubt, because he was sent from God to bear witness to the coming of the Light, lest when It came It might take the darkness by surprise, and the darkness might not comprehend It. Now, John was a figure of the Old Testament, and showed in his own person a typical embodiment of the Law; and therefore John heralded beforehand the coming of the Saviour, even as the Law was our schoolmaster to bring us to the grace of Christ. (Gal. iii. 24.)

[Responsory4]
R. The Angel of the Lord was sent down unto Zacharias, saying: Thou shalt beget a son in thine old age;
* and his name shall be called John the Baptist.
V. The child shall be great in the sight of the Lord; for His hand is with him.
R. And his name shall be called John the Baptist.

[Lectio5]
But as touching this, that he prophesied while yet in the hidden depths of his mother's womb, and while himself lightless bore testimony to the truth, we are to understand it as a figure how that while himself wrapped round with the veil and carnal ordinances of the letter, he by the spirit preached unto the world a Redeemer, and testified that Jesus is our Lord even while for himself, working under the law, the birth of the new dispensation was still in the womb of the future, and not come to day. The Jews were estranged from the womb, that is from the Law, that womb heavy with the Christ That was to be; they went astray from the belly, speaking lies, (Ps. lvii. 4;) and therefore John came for a witness, to bear witness of the Light, that all men through him might believe. (John i. 7.)

[Responsory5]
R. This is the well-beloved Fore-runner, a burning and a shining light before the Lord.
* For even this is John, who made straight in the desert an highway for our God. This also is he which bare witness, saying: Behold the Lamb of God! And his light lightened the minds of men.
V. He shall go before Him in the spirit and power of Elias.
R. For even this is John, who made straight in the desert an highway for our God. This also is he which bare witness, saying Behold the Lamb of God! And his light lightened the minds of men.

[Lectio6]
But as for this, that when John had heard in the prison the works of Christ, he sent two of his disciples (Matth. xi. 2); this is the Law sending to the Gospel. For John here was a figure of the Law, imprisoned in ignorance, lying in the dark, and in a hidden place, and he was fettered through Jewish misunderstanding within the bonds of the letter. But of him was it said, as is written in the Blessed Evangelist He was a burning and a shining light that is to say, that, when the whole world was wrapt in the night of ignorance, this Saint was kindled by the fire of the Holy Ghost, to show before men the light of salvation, and at the hour of the thickest darkness of sin, appeared like a bright morning star to herald the rising of that Sun so right gloriously radiant, the Son of righteousness, Christ our Lord. And this is why John said of himself: I am the voice of one crying in the wilderness, Make straight the way of the Lord. (John i. 15.)

[Responsory6]
R. They made signs to his father, how he would have him called; and he asked for a writing-table, and wrote, saying:
* His name is John.
V. The mouth of Zacharias was opened, and he prophesied, saying:
R. His name is John.
&Gloria
R. His name is John.

[Lectio7]
From the Holy Gospel according to Luke
!Luke 1:57-69
Elisabeth's fullness of time came that she should deliver, and she brought forth a son. And her neighbours and her cousins heard how the Lord had showed great mercy upon her, and they rejoiced with her. And so on.
_
Homily by St. Ambrose, Bishop of Milan.
!Bk. ii. Comm. on Luke i.
Elizabeth's full time came that she should be delivered, and she brought forth a~
son. And her neighbours rejoiced with her. The birth of a Saint is a joy for many, for it is a good to all. Righteousness is an help to all, and therefore when a righteous man is born it is an heralding of his life, which is still to come, that the helpful excellency of his future should be hailed by the, as it were, prophetic joy of the neighbours. It is well that we should be told concerning the prophet, while he was yet in the womb, that we may know how that Mary was there; but we hear nothing of his childhood, because,we know that it was safe and strong through the nearness of the Lord, Himself then in that womb which was free from the sorrows of pregnancy. And therefore we read in the Gospel nothing touching him save his coming, the annunciation thereof to his father, the leap which he gave in the womb, and his crying in the wilderness.

[Responsory7]
R. The Fore-runner of the Lord cometh, to whom He Himself bare witness, saying:
* Among them that are born of women there hath not risen a greater than John the Baptist.
V. A Prophet? Yea, and much more than a Prophet. This is he of whom the Saviour saith:
R. Among them that are born of women there hath not risen a greater than John the Baptist.

[Lectio8]
It was not for him to feel childishness, who beyond all use of nature or of his age, when as yet he lay in his mother's womb, leapt at once unto the measure of the stature of the fullness of Christ. (Eph. iv. 13.) It is strange how that the Holy Evangelist hath judged meet to tell us that they thought to call the child Zacharias, after the name of his father, that thou mayest notice that the mother would have none of the names whereby their kindred were called, but only that name which the Holy Ghost had dictated, and which the Angel had told before unto Zacharias. The dumb man had certainly not been able to tell his wife by what name to call the child, and Elizabeth must needs have learnt by revelation what she could not have heard from her husband.

[Responsory8]
R. The Angel Gabriel appeared unto Zacharias, and said thy wife Elizabeth shall bear thee a son, and thou shalt call his name John;
* And many shall rejoice at his birth.
V. For he shall be great in the sight of the Lord, and shall drink neither wine nor strong drink.
R. And many shall rejoice at his birth.
&Gloria
R. And many shall rejoice at his birth.

[Lectio9]
His name is John; that is, it is not for us to choose a name now for him to whom God hath given a name already. He hath a name, which we know, but it is not one of our choosing. To receive a name from God is one of the honours of the Saints. Thus was it that Jacob's name was no more called Jacob but Israel, because he saw God face to face. (Gen. xxxii. 28.) Thus was it that our Lord Jesus was named before He was born, with a name not given by an Angel, but by the Father. Thou seest that Angels tell that which they have been bidden to tell, not matters of their own choosing. Nor oughtest thou to wonder that Elizabeth named a name which she had not heard, since it had been revealed to her by the same Holy Ghost Who had commanded the Angel to tell it.
&teDeum

[Ant Laudes]
Alžběta Zachariášovi * porodila velikého muže, Jana Křtitele, předchůdce Páně.
Naznačili jeho otci otázku, * jak jej chce pojmenovat; a on napsal: Jeho jméno je Jan.
Jan bude nazváno * jeho jméno; a z jeho narození s mnozí zaradují.
Mezi syny * z ženy nepovstal větší Jana Křtitele.
Ty, synu, * budeš nazván Prorokem Nejvyššího; půjdeš totiž před Pánem a připravíš jeho cestu.

[Capitulum Laudes]
!Isa 49:1
v. Slyšte, ostrovy, a naslouchejte, lidé zdaleka. Hospodin mě z lůna povolal, z nitra mé matky se rozpomněl na mé jméno.
$Deo gratias

[Hymnus Laudes]
v. Nesmírně šťastný, vznešený a ctnostný
s čistoty květem nad sníh bez poskvrny,
ty poustevníku, Mučedníku mocný,
z Proroků první.
_
Věnce třikráte deset korunují
jedny, jiné, když vzrostou léta, dvakrát,
třikrát pak sto ti plodů nahromadí,
věnců ozdoba.
_
Mocí svých zásluh pomoz balvan těžký
odvalit z nitra navždy nám, svým bratřím,
drsnost cest zmírni, křivolaké stezky
do nebe napřim.
_
Ať Tvůrce světa a náš dobrotivý
Spasitel k našim očištěným duším
už neodkládá svůj krok milostivý
obrátit z výšin.
_
Ať věčně tobě, Bože trojjediný
nejhlubší úctu vzdává celé nebe,
nám vykoupeným odpusť všechny viny,
prosíme tebe.
Amen.

[Versum 2]
V. Toto dítě je velké před Pánem.
R. Neboť i jeho ruka je s ním.

[Ant 2]
Otevřela se * Zachariášova ústa, a on prorokoval, řkouc: Požehnaný je Bůh Israele.

[Lectio Prima]
!Isa 49:7
v. Králové uvidí a vstanou knížata, a budou se klanět Hospodinu tvému Bohu, a Svatému Israele, který tě vyvolil.
$Deo gratias

[Responsory Tertia]
R.br. Byl člověk poslaný od Boha.
R. Byl člověk poslaný od Boha.
V. Jehož jméno bylo Jan.
R. Poslaný od Boha.
&Gloria
R. Byl člověk poslaný od Boha.
_
V. Mezi syny z ženy nepovstal větší. 
R. Než Jan Křtitel.

[Capitulum Sexta]
!Isa 49:5-6
v. Avšak nyní praví Hospodin, který si ze mě utvořil Služebníka již v matčině lůně: Dal jsem tě národům jako světlo, aby se má spása rozšířila až do končin země.
$Deo gratias

[Responsory Sexta]
R.br. Among them that are born of women * there hath not risen a greater.
R. Among them that are born of women * there hath not risen a greater.
V. Than John the Baptist.
R. There hath not risen a greater.
&Gloria
R. Among them that are born of women there hath not risen a greater.
_
V. Alžběta Zachariášovi porodila velikého muže. 
R. Jana Křtitele, předchůdce Páně.

[Responsory Nona]
R.br. Alžběta Zachariášovi porodila velikého muže.
R. Alžběta Zachariášovi porodila velikého muže.
V. Jana Křtitele, předchůdce Páně.
R. Velikého muže.
&Gloria
R. Alžběta Zachariášovi porodila velikého muže.
_
V. The child shall be great in the sight of the Lord.
R. For His hand is with him.

[Ant 3]
The child, that unto us is born, * is much more than a Prophet, for this is he of whom the Saviour saith: Among them that are born of women there hath not risen a greater than John the Baptist.

[Ant 3] (rubrica cisterciensis)
A uložili * vše, co slyšeli, do svého srdce, a pravili: Kdo si myslíš, že tento chlapec bude? Vždyť ruka Páně je s ním. A Zachariáš, jeho otec, byl naplněn Duchem svatým, a prorokoval, řkouc: Poženán buď Bůh Israele, neboť navštívil a vykoupil svůj lid.

[Octava 1]
!Commemoration of the Octave of the Nativity of John the Baptist
Ant. When Zacharias went * into the Temple of the Lord, the Angel Gabriel appeared unto him, standing on the right side of the altar of incense.
_
V. There was a man sent from God.
R. Whose name was John.
_
$Oremus
O God, Who hast made this day to be honourable in our eyes because of the Birth of the blessed John, graciously quicken thy people with spiritual joy, and order the minds of all the faithful in the way of everlasting salvation.
$Per Dominum

[Octava 2]
!Commemoration of the Octave of the Nativity of John the Baptist
Ant. And the mouth of Zacharias was opened, * and he prophesied, saying: Blessed be the Lord God of Israel.
_
V. The child shall be great in the sight of the Lord.
R. For His hand is with him.
_
$Oremus
O God, Who hast made this day to be honourable in our eyes because of the Birth of the blessed John, graciously quicken thy people with spiritual joy, and order the minds of all the faithful in the way of everlasting salvation.
$Per Dominum
