[Officium]
sv. Jana a Pavla, Mučedníků

[Ant 1]
The righteous stand * in the Presence of the Lord, and are not divided the one from the other; they drank of the Lord's Cup, and they are called Friends of God.

[Ant 1] (rubrica cisterciensis)
V nebi se radují * duše Svatých, jež následovali v Kristových stopách; a protože pro jeho lásku prolili svou krev, proto s Kristem jásají bez konce.

[Oratio]
Prosíme, všemohoucí Bože; aby nás zachvátila dvojitá radost dnešní slavnosti, jež vychází z oslavení svatých Jana a Pavla; jež tatáž víra i utrpení vpravdě učinila bratry.
$Per Dominum

[Lectio4]
John and Paul were two Roman brethren, the godly and trustworthy servants of Constantia, daughter of Constantine. At her death they spent in feeding Christ's poor the property which she left them. Julian the Apostate asked them to enter his household, but they bravely answered that they would not be servants to one who had run away from the service of Jesus Christ. Julian gave them ten days to consider on their choice, whether, at the end of that time, they would cleave to him, and sacrifice to Jupiter, or most surely die.

[Responsory4_]
R. These are two men full of mercy, who stand in the presence of the Lord,
* The Lord of the whole earth.
V. These are two olive trees, and two candlesticks, giving light in the presence of the Lord.
R. The Lord of the whole earth.

[Lectio5]
This interval they spent in distributing to poor creatures all that remained of their goods, that they might be quite free to depart hence to the Lord, and so succoured many by whom they have long since been received into everlasting habitations. On the tenth day Terentian, Prefect of the Praetorian Cohort, was sent to them, bringing with him the image of Jupiter. He explained to them the command of the Emperor, that they should worship the said image or die. They were engaged in prayer, but answered him that for their loyalty to Christ, Whom their understanding acknowledged and their mouths confessed to be God, they felt no hesitation in choosing to suffer death.

[Responsory5_]
R. I saw men standing together clad in shining raiment; and the Angel of the Lord spake unto me, saying: 
* These men are holy, for they are the friends of God.
V. And I beheld a mighty Angel of God, flying through the midst of heaven, crying with a loud voice, and saying:
R. These men are holy, for they are the friends of God.

[Lectio6]
Terentian, to avoid the uproar, which might have been caused by their public execution, caused their heads to be cut off at home where they then were. They lifted up their last earthly testimony upon the 26th day of June, (in the year of our Lord 362.) They were privately buried, and a story set about that they had been sent into exile. The fact of their death was made generally known by the unclean spirits by whom the bodies of many were tormented, and among others that of Terentian's own son, who was possessed with a devil, and delivered by being brought to the grave of the Martyrs. By this miracle he was led to believe in Christ, and so likewise was his father Terentian, who is said to have been the writer of the life of these blessed Martyrs.

[Lectio94]
The Roman brothers John and Paul distributed to the poor the wealth they had been left by Constantia, the daughter of Constantine, whom they had served justly and faithfully. Invited by Julian the Apostate to join the members of his household, they boldly declared that they did not wish to live in the house of a man who had abandoned Jesus Christ. They were therefore given ten days in which to be persuaded to sacrifice to Jupiter. As they steadfastly refused to commit this sin, they were beheaded in their home, at the command of Terentian the judge, thus meriting the palm of martyrdom. The news of their glorious death was spread abroad by unclean spirits, who began tormenting the bodies of many persons, among them the son of Terentian. He was freed of his diabolical tormentor at the tomb of the Martyrs. This miracle led both him and his father, Terentian, to believe in Christ; and the latter is said to have written the life of the holy Martyrs.
&teDeum

[Lectio7]
Čtení svatého Evangelia podle Lukáše.
!Lukáš 12:1-8
Za onoho času řekl Ježíš svým učedníkům: „Mějte se na pozoru před farizejským kvasem, což jest pokrytectví“. A ostatní.
_
Homilie ctihodného Bédy Kněze.
!Kniha 4. na Lukáše. kapitola 12.
O tomto kvasu nám Apoštol přikázal: „Proto slavme Velikonoce nikoliv se starým kvasem, s kvasem zla a špatnosti, ale s nekvašenými chleby upřímnosti a pravdy.“ Neboť stejně jako trocha kvasu prokvasí veškerou mouku, s níž je smísena, a brzo svou chutí prodchne veškeré těsto, tak i pokrytectví, jímž se jednou duch nakazí, jej zbaví veškeré vážnosti a pravdivosti jeho ctností. Smysl je tedy takový: Hleďte, abyste nenapodobovali pokrytce; neboť zajisté přijde čas, v němž bude odhalena vaše ctnost i jejich pokrytectví.
 

[Lectio8]
Pravda je i to, co následuje: „Neboť co jste řekli v temnotách, řečeno bude na světle“. Nejen v budoucnu, až všechny věci skryté v srdcích budou vytaženy na světlo, ale i v současné době se to dá odpovídajícím způsobem vyložit: neboť cokoliv, co kdysi Apoštolové řekli či strpěli v temnotách útlaků a stínech žalářů, nyní Církev zjevuje po celém světě, když veřejně hlásá a  pronáší čtení z jejich skutků. Nebojte se těch, kteří zabíjejí tělo. Pokud pronásledovatelé Svatých poté, co zabijí tělo, jim již nemohou více uškodit, zbytečně tedy běsnili nenávistí ti, kteří předhazovali mrtvá těla Mučedníků šelmám a ptákům, aby je roztrhali, když se stejně žádným způsobem nemohou postavit vše­mohoucnosti Boží, aby je nevzkřísila k životu.

[Lectio9]
Známe však dva druhy pronásledovatelů: jedni otevřeně zuřivě pronásledují, druzí naoko falešně utěšují. Proti oběma nás chtěl vyzbrojit a varovat Spasitel, když nám zde přikázal, abychom se měli na pozoru před pokrytectví Farizeů, nebo jinde, abychom se nebáli násilí katů. Neboť po smrti již nebude trvat ani krutost katů, ani farizejské pokrytectví. Neprodávají se snad dva vrabci za haléř? Pán praví: „Pokud Bůh nemůže zapomenout ani na tato maličkatá zvířata, která se pohybují všude možně ve vzduchu; pak vy, kteří jste byli stvořeni k obrazu Stvořitelovu, se nemusíte bát těch, kteří zabijí tělo; neboť nerozumná zvířata Bůh ovládá, o rozumná se však také nepřestává starat.
&teDeum

[Ant Laudes]
Paul and John * said unto Julian: We worship One God, Who hath made heaven and earth.
Paul and John * said unto Terentian: If thy Lord be Julian, keep thou at peace with him, but as for us, we have no other Lord but the Lord Jesus Christ.
John and Paul, * when they had heard the tyrannous command of Julian, began to disperse abroad their goods among the poor.
O ye holy Spirits and Souls of the righteous, bless ye the Lord. Alleluia.
John and Paul * said unto Gallican: Make thy vow unto the God of heaven, and thou shalt be yet a greater conqueror than ever thou hast been heretofore.

[Ant Laudes] (rubrica cisterciensis)
@CommuneM/C3

[Ant 2]
To jsou ti Svatí * jež pro Kristovu lásku nedbali hrozeb od lidí, a jako svatí Mučedníci se radují v království nebeském s Anděly; ó, jak drahá je smrt Svatých, jež vytrvale slouží před Pánem, at nejsou již od sebe rozděleni.

[Ant Vespera 3]
Paul and John * said unto Julian: We worship One God, Who hath made heaven and earth.;;109
Paul and John * said unto Terentian: If thy Lord be Julian, keep thou at peace with him, but as for us, we have no other Lord but the Lord Jesus Christ.;;110
John and Paul, * when they had heard the tyrannous command of Julian, began to disperse abroad their goods among the poor.;;111
O ye holy Spirits and Souls of the righteous, bless ye the Lord. Alleluia.;;112
John and Paul * said unto Gallican: Make thy vow unto the God of heaven, and thou shalt be yet a greater conqueror than ever thou hast been heretofore.;;116

[Ant Vespera 3] (rubrica cisterciensis)
@CommuneM/C3

[Ant 3] 
Tito jsou * dvě olivy, a dva svícny, které září před Hospodinem, mají moc zahalit nebe oblaky, i otevřít jeho brány, neboť jejich jazyky jsou klíče k nebi.
