[Rank]
Navštívení Panny Marie

[Ant Vespera]
Maria povstala * a odešla spěšně do hor, do města Judova.;;109
Vešla Maria * do domu Zachariášova, a pozdravila Alžbětu.;;112
Jakmile uslyšela * Alžběta pozdravení Mariino, zajásalo nemluvně v jejím lůně, a byla naplněna Duchem Svatým, alleluja.;;121
Požehnaná jsi * mezi ženami, a požehnaný plod života tvého.;;126
Jakmile se ozval * hlas tvého pozdravení v mých uších, zajásalo nemluvně v mém lůně, alleluja.;;147

[Responsory Vespera 1] (rubrica cisterciensis)
Responsorium. Velebí duše má Hospodina a můj duch jásá v Bohu, mém spasiteli, * že se sklonil ke své služebnici v jejím ponížení. 
V. Hle, od této chvíle budou mne blahoslavit všechna pokolení.
R. Že se sklonil ke své služebnici v jejím ponížení. 

[Versum 1]
V. Požehnaná jsi mezi ženami.
R. A požehnaný plod života tvého.

[Ant 1]
O Mary * blessed art thou that didst believe, for there shall be a performance of those things which were told thee from the Lord. Alleluia.

[Ant 1] (rubrica cisterciensis)
Ó jak silná * láska v tu chvíli vstoupila v mysl neposkvrněné Panny, že uchvácena Duchem Svatým zvolala: Velebí duše má Hospodina.

[Oratio]
Svým služebníkům, prosíme, Pane, uděl dar nebeské milosti; aby nám, pro něž porod blažené Panny znamenal počátek spasení, vytoužená slavnost jejího Navštívení v nás rozmnoží pokoj.
$Per Dominum

[Oratio] (rubrica cisterciensis)
Všemohoucí věčný Bože, jenž jsi z přemíry lásky blaženou Pannu Marii těhotnou s tvým Synem podnítil k pozdravení Alžbětě; uděl, prosíme, abychom byli skrze její Navštívení naplněni nebeskými dary, a vysvobozeni ode všech protivenství.
$Per eumdem

[Invit]
Let us keep holiday for the Visitation of the Virgin Mary. * Let us worship Christ, her Son, and her Lord and ours.

[Lectio1]
Z Písně Písní
!Pís. 2:1-7
1 Jsem polní kvítek, lilie v dolinách. 
2 Jako lilie mezi trním, tak má přítelkyně mezi dcerami. 
3 Jako jabloň mezi lesními stromy, tak můj milý mezi syny. Usedla jsem žádostivě v jeho stínu, jeho ovoce mi sládne na rtech. 
4 On mě uvedl do domu vína, jeho prapor nade mnou je láska. 
5 Občerstvěte mě koláči hrozinkovými, osvěžte mě jablky, neboť jsem nemocna láskou. 
6 Jeho levice je pod mou hlavou, jeho pravice mě objímá. 
7 Zapřísahám vás, jeruzalémské dcery, při gazelách a při polních laních: nebuďte a nezburcujte lásku, dokud nebude chtít sama. 

[Responsory1]
R. Vstaň, pospíchej, má přítelkyně, má krásko, a přijď; již totiž zima přešla, deštík odešel a ustoupil;
* Hlas hrdličky je slyšet v naší zemi.
V. Marie vešla do domu Zachariášova a pozdravila Alžbětu.
R. Hlas hrdličky je slyšet v naší zemi.

[Lectio2]
!Pís. 2:8-13
8 Hlas mého milého! Hle, právě přichází, hory přeskakuje, přenáší se přes pahorky.
9 Gazele se podobá můj milý nebo kolouškovi. Hle, právě stojí za naší zídkou, nahlíží do oken, dívá se mřížováním. 
10 Můj milý se ozval, řekl mi: „Vstaň, má přítelkyně, krásko má, a pojď! 
11 Hle, zima pominula, lijavce přešly, jsou tytam.
12 Po zemi se objevují květy, nadešel čas prořezávat , hlas hrdličky je slyšet v naší zemi. 
13 Fíkovník nasadil první plody, voní kvítky vinné révy.  

[Lectio3]
!Pís. 2:13-17
13 Vstaň, má přítelkyně, krásko má, a pojď!“
14 Holubičko moje v rozsedlinách skály, v úkrytu nad strží, dopřej mi zahlédnout tvou tvář, dovol mi hlas tvůj slyšet. Jak lahodný je tvůj hlas! Jak půvabnou máš tvář! 
15 „Lišky nám schytejte, lištičky malé, plenící vinice, vinice naše, když kvetou!“ 
16 Můj milý je můj a já jsem jeho, on pase v liliích. 
17 Než zavane den a stíny dají se v běh, přiběhni, milý můj, podoben gazele či kolouškovi na Béterských horách. 

[Responsory3]
R. Alžběta byla naplněna Duchem Svatým a zvolala: Požehnaná jsi mezi ženami, a požehnaný plod života tvého;
* A jak se to stalo, že matka mého Pána ke mě přišla?
V. Však ejhle, jakmile zazněl hlas tvého pozdravu v mých uších, radostně zajásalo dítě v mém lůně.
R. A jak se to stalo, že matka mého Pána ke mě přišla?
&Gloria
R. A jak se to stalo, že matka mého Pána ke mě přišla?

[Lectio4]
From the Sermons of St. John Chrysostom, Patriarch of Constantinople
!In Metaphrast. July
As soon as our Redeemer was come among us, He went with haste, while as yet He was in His mother's womb, to visit His friend John. And John, in the one womb, becoming conscious of the Presence of Jesus in the other womb, dashed himself impatiently against the narrow walls of his natural prison, as though crying out: I see the very Lord who hath given nature her bounds, and I wait not for the due season of my birth. There is no need for me to linger here till nine months are ended, for He That is Eternal is with me! I will break out of my dark cell; I will proclaim my full knowledge of many wonders. I am the sign. I will show that the Christ is here. I am the trumpet; let me peal forth the news that the Son of God is come in the flesh. Let me give my trumpet-note, let me bless my father's tongue, and make it to speak again. Let me give my trumpet-note, let me quicken my mother's womb.

[Responsory4]
R. Behold, he cometh leaping upon the mountains, skipping upon the hills;
* My beloved is like a gazelle or a young roe-buck!
V. He rejoiceth as a giant to run his course, his going-forth is from the end of the heavens.
R. My beloved is like a gazelle or a young roe-buck!

[Lectio5]
Thou seest, O beloved, how new and how strange a mystery is here! John is not born, but by leaping he speaketh; he is yet unseen, and he giveth warning; he is not yet able to cry, but by his acts he is heard. He draweth not yet the breath of life, but he preacheth God. he seeth not yet the light, but he maketh known the Sun! He is not come out of the womb, but he hasteth to play the Fore-runner in the Presence of the Lord. He cannot restrain himself; he rebelleth against the bounds set by nature, and struggleth to break out of the prison of the belly. His longing is to herald the coming Saviour. He saith, as it were: Behold, the Deliverer cometh and am I to remain still bound to abide here? The Word cometh, that He may set right all things and am I still to tarry in prison? I will go forth. I will run before Him, and cry aloud to all men: “Behold the Lamb of God Which taketh away the sin of the world.”

[Responsory5]
R. Rejoice with me, rejoice with me, all ye that love the Lord, for, while I was~
yet a little one, I pleased the Most High,
* And I have brought forth from my bowels God and man.
V. All generations shall call me blessed, for God hath regarded the low estate~
of His hand-maiden.
R. And I have brought forth from my bowels God and man.

[Lectio6]
But do thou tell us, O John, how it came to pass that while thou wast still in the darkness of thy mother's womb, thou didst see and hear? How didst thou behold the things of God? How didst thou leap and bound for joy? Great, saith John, is the mystery of that which taketh place here, far from the understanding of men are these doings. It is meet that I should do a new thing in nature for the sake of Him Who is making new things which are beyond nature. I see in the womb, because I see the Sun of righteousness in a womb. I hear, because I am coming as the herald of the Great Word. I cry out, because I espy the Only-begotten Son of the Father clad in Flesh. I bound for joy, because I see that He by Whom all things were made, hath taken upon Him the form of a servant. I leap, because I think of the Redeemer of the world being made Flesh. I run before His coming, and herald His approach unto you with this, as it were, my confession.

[Responsory6]
R. Blessed art thou that hast believed, for there shall be a performance of those things which were told thee from the Lord. And Mary said:
* My soul doth magnify the Lord.
V. Come, hear, and I will declare what God hath done for my soul.
R. My soul doth magnify the Lord.
&Gloria
R. My soul doth magnify the Lord.

[Lectio7]
From the Holy Gospel according to Luke
!Luke 1:39-47
And Mary arose in those days and went into the hill-country with haste, into a city of Judah. And entered into the house of Zacharias, and saluted Elizabeth. And so on.
_
Homily by St. Ambrose, Bishop of Milan
!Bk. ii Comm. on Luke i
We must here consider that the greater cometh unto the lesser, Mary unto Elizabeth, Christ unto John. And again afterwards, to hallow the baptism of John, the Lord came unto him to be baptized. It was soon that the blessings of the coming of Mary and of the Presence of God were made manifest. Have regard here to the distinction made, and to the special weight of every word. Elizabeth was the first to hear the voice of Mary's salutation, but John was the first to receive grace. She heard naturally, but he leaped mystically. She hailed the coming of Mary, he that of the Lord, Mary and Elizabeth spake words full of grace, but Jesus and John worked, and commenced their mystery of godliness from their mothers' beginnings, and so by twin miracles the mothers prophesied from the spirit of their unborn offspring. The babe leaped, and the mother was filled with the Holy Ghost. The mother was not filled before the son, but when the son was filled with the Holy Ghost, he filled his mother also.

[Responsory7]
R. All generations shall call me blessed,
* For the Lord, That is mighty, hath done to me great things, and holy is His~
Name.
V. And His mercy is on them that fear Him, from generation to generation.
R. For the Lord, That is mighty, hath done to me great things, and holy is His~
Name.

[Lectio8]
And whence is this to me, that the Mother of my Lord should come to me? That is to say, How cometh it to pass that so great a good should befall me, as that the Mother of my Lord should come to me I feel the miracle, I acknowledge the mystery: the Mother of my Lord, pregnant with the Word, is full of God. And Mary abode with her about three months, and returned to her own house. It is meet to record how Mary showed this kindness, and abode this mystic number of months.

[Responsory8]
R. O Holy Virgin Mary, happy indeed art thou, and right worthy of all praise,
* For out of thee rose the Sun of righteousness, * Even Christ our God.
V. Pray for the people, plead for the clergy, make intercession for all women vowed to God; may all that make remembrance of thine holy Visitation feel the might of thine assistance.
R. For out of thee rose the Sun of righteousness.
&Gloria
R. Even Christ our God.

[Lectio9]
She tarried long, not only for friendship's sake, but also for the good of the Great Prophet. For if the first coming of Mary so blessed him, that even as a babe in the womb he leapt for joy, and his mother was filled with the Holy Ghost, what blessedness must we not deem to have flowed upon him from so long neighbourhood of Mary. Thus was the Prophet anointed, and trained by exercise like a strong wrestler, in his mother's womb, for his sinews were being braced for a hard battle.
&teDeum

[Lectio93]
!Commemoration for the Holy Martyrs Processus and Martinian
At what time Peter and Paul were kept in the Mamertine Prison, at the foot of~
the Tarpeian Rock, two of the gaolers, named Processus and Martinian, along with~
other forty, were moved by the preaching and miracles of the Apostles to believe~
in Christ, and were baptized in a spring which suddenly brake forth out of the~
rock. These men let the Apostles depart if they willed it. But Paulinus, Prefect~
of the soldiers, when he heard what was come to pass, strove to turn away~
Processus and Martinian from their purpose. And when he found that he but wasted~
time, he ordered their faces to be bruised and their teeth to be broken, with~
stones. Moreover, when he had had them led to the image of Jupiter, and they~
still boldly answered that they would not worship the gods, he caused them to be~
tormented on the rack, and white-hot plates of metal to be put to their flesh,~
and that they should be beaten with sticks. While they were suffering all~
these things they were heard to say only this one word Blessed be the Name of~
the Lord. They were afterwards cast into prison, and in a little while they were~
taken outside the city, and slain with the axe, upon the Aurelian Way. The Lady~
Lucina buried their bodies upon her own farm, upon the 2nd day of July, but they~
were afterwards brought into the City, and are buried in the Church of the~
Prince of the Apostles.
&teDeum

[Ant Laudes]
@:Ant Vespera:s/;;.*//g

[Ant Laudes] (rubrica cisterciensis)
V lůně * Panny Marie byl připraven tvůj trůn, Bože, od věků.
Jásej Bohu * celé země, a nebeská Knížata mu služte.
Prokázal Hospodin * sílu svým ramenem, rozptýlil ty, kdo v srdci smýšlejí pyšně.
Vladaře svrhl * z trůnu a ponížené povýšil,
Hladové nasytil dobrými věcmi * a bohaté poslal pryč s prázdnou.

[Capitulum Laudes] (rubrica cisterciensis)
!Píseň písní. 2, 8-9
v. Hle, on přichází, běží po horách, skáče po pahorcích. Můj miláček se podobá gazele nebo kolouchu laně.
$Deo gratias

[Ant 2]
When Elizabeth heard the salutation * of Mary, she spoke out with a loud voice and said: Whence is this to me, that the Mother of my Lord should come to me, alleluia.

[Ant 2] (rubrica cisterciensis)
Pochválen * buď Hospodin, Bůh Israele, protože navštívil a vykoupil svůj lid, jak mluvil ústy svatých.

[Capitulum Sexta] (rubrica cisterciensis)
!Píseň písní. 2, 10-12
v. Vstaň, moje milá, moje krásko, a pojď! Hle, už přešla zima, déšť přestal a minul. Květy se objevily na zemi, přišel čas ke zpěvu
$Deo gratias

[Capitulum Nona] (rubrica cisterciensis)
!Píseň písní. 2, 13
v. Vrkání hrdličky je slyšet po našem kraji. Zrají plody fíkovníku, poupata révy vydávají svou vůni.
$Deo gratias

[Responsory Vespera] (rubrica cisterciensis)
R.br. Navštívení tvé, * Boží Rodičko a Panno.
R. Navštívení tvé, * Boží Rodičko a Panno.
V. Radost zvěstovalo celému světu. 
R.br. Boží Rodičko a Panno.

[Ant 3] (rubrica cisterciensis)
Veleb * Pána celý rod věrných, zazni ladnou chválou zástupe Andělů na Mariinu radost.