[Officium]
Pretiosissimi Sanguinis Domini Nostri Jesu Christi

[Ant Vespera]
Kdo je ten, * který přichází z Edomu v šatu barveném z Basry? je krásný ve svém oděvu.
Já, jenž mluvím * spravedlivě, a bojuji za spásu.
Byl oděn * v oděv potřísněný krví, a jeho jméno je Slovo Boží.
Proč jen * je rudý tvůj šat, a tvůj oděv je jako oděv těch, kdo šlapou víno v lisu?
V lisu * jsem šlapal sám, a z <i>pohanských</i>národů zde není ani jeden.

[Hymnus Vespera]
v. Slavnými ať znějí ulice vše hlasy,
Lidé ať radost svou na tváři ukáží,
S loučemi v rukou svých, hořících, za sebou
V řadě mladí i staří.
_
Když Kristus umíral na tvrdém tom stromě,
Z mnoha svých hojných ran proléval rudou krev,
Nám se připomíná, když ji uctíváme,
Slzy že prolévat máme.
_
Lidského rodu když ohrožení těžké,
Starého Adama hříchem na nás padlo;
Nového Adama čistota, laskavost,
Život navrátily nám všem.
_
Přemocný nářek když, nejvyšší až z nebe
Otec sám uslyšel, svého ctného Syna;
Utišen jen jeho krví mohl býti,
A pak nám milost svou dáti.
_
To každý - kdo oděv svůj v krvi si vypere,
Vyčistí hříchů hnůj; a růžovou krásu,
Jíž se hnedle stane podoben Andělům,
Králi se zalíbí - pozná.
_
Od přímé cesty ať se nikdo nepevný
Nikdy neodtáhne, ale svůj věčný cíl
Dosáhne; udělí vznešenou odměnu
Bůh, který na cestě pomoh'. 
_
Nám laskav rač býti, Otče náš přemocný,
Abys, jež jediný krví Syn spřízněný
Vykoupil, též krásným Plamenem obnovil,
Nebes do výšin pak vynesl.
Amen.

[Versum 1]
V. Vykoupil jsi nás, Pane, svou krví.
R. A učinil nás královstvím našeho Boha.

[Ant 1]
Přistoupili jste * k hoře Sion, a živému městu Božímu, nebeskému Jerusalému, a prostředníku nové Smlouvy Ježíši, a pokropení krví, které mluví lépe než to Ábelovo.

[Oratio]
Všemohoucí věčný Bože, jenž jsi svého jednorozeného Syna ustanovil Spasitelem světa, a chtěl býti usmířen jeho Krví; uděl, prosíme, abychom cenu naší spásy slavnostními obřady natolik uctívali, a od zel časného života jeho silou bráněni byli na zemi, že se budeme z jejích plodů radovat v nebi.
$Per eumdem

[Invit]
Christ, the Son of God, hath redeemed us by His Own Blood, * O come, let us worship Him.

[Hymnus Matutinum]
v. He who once, in righteous vengeance,
Whelmed the world beneath the flood,
Once again in mercy cleansed it
With the stream of his own blood,
Coming from his throne on high
On the painful cross to die.
_
Blest with this all-saving shower,
Earth her beauty straight resumed;
In the place of thorns and briars,
Myrtles sprang, and roses bloomed:
Bitter wormwood of the waste
Into honey changed its taste.
_
Scorpions ceased; the slimy serpent
Laid his deadly poison by;
Savage beasts of cruel instinct
Lost their wild ferocity;
Welcoming the gentle reign
Of the Lamb for sinners slain.
_
Oh, the wisdom of th' eternal!
Oh, its depth and height divine!
Oh, the sweetness of that mercy
Which in Jesus Christ doth shine!
Slaves we were condemned to die!
Our King pays the penalty!
_
When before the Judge we tremble,
Conscious of his broken laws,
May this blood, in that dread hour,
Cry aloud, and plead our cause;
Bid our guilty terrors cease,
Be our pardon and our peace.
_
Prince and author of salvation!
Lord of majesty supreme!
Jesu, praise to thee be given
By the world thou didst redeem;
Who with the Father and the Spirit,
Reignest in eternal merit.
Amen.

[Ant Matutinum]
And when eight days were accomplished * for the circumcising of the child, His Name was called Jesus.;;2
And being in an agony * He prayed more earnestly, and His Sweat was as it were great drops of Blood falling down to the ground.;;3
Judas, which had betrayed Him, * repented himself, and brought again the thirty pieces of silver, saying: I have sinned, in that I have betrayed the innocent Blood.;;15
V. Vykoupil jsi nás, Pane. 
R. Svou krví.
Pilate, * willing to content the people, delivered Jesus, when he had scourged Him, to be crucified.;;22
When Pilate saw * that he could prevail nothing, he took water, and washed his hands before the multitude, saying: I am innocent of the Blood of this just Person.;;29
Then answered * all the people and said: His Blood be on us, and on our children.;;63
V. Krev Ježíše Krista, Syna Božího.
R. Očistí nás od každého hříchu.
Then came Jesus forth, * wearing the crown of thorns, and the purple robe. And Pilate saith unto them: Behold the Man.;;73
And He, bearing His Cross, * went forth into a place called the place of a Skull, where they crucified Him.;;87
But when they came to Jesus, and saw that He was dead already, * they brake not His legs but one of the soldiers with a spear pierced His Side, and forth with came thereout Blood and Water.;;93
V. Kristus si nás zamiloval.
R. A obmyl nás od našich hříchů ve své Krvi.

[Nocturn 1 Versum]
V. Vykoupil jsi nás, Pane. 
R. Svou krví.

[Nocturn 2 Versum]
V. Krev Ježíše Krista, Syna Božího.
R. Očistí nás od každého hříchu.

[Nocturn 3 Versum]
V. Kristus si nás zamiloval.
R. A obmyl nás od našich hříchů ve své Krvi.

[Lectio1]
Lesson from the letter of St. Paul the Apostle to the Hebrews
!Heb 9:11-15
11 But Christ, being come an high priest of the good things to come, by a greater and more perfect tabernacle not made with hand, that is, not of this creation:
12 Neither by the blood of goats, or of calves, but by his own blood, entered once into the holies, having obtained eternal redemption.
13 For if the blood of goats and of oxen, and the ashes of an heifer being sprinkled, sanctify such as are defiled, to the cleansing of the flesh:
14 How much more shall the blood of Christ, who by the Holy Ghost offered himself unspotted unto God, cleanse our conscience from dead works, to serve the living God?
15 And therefore he is the mediator of the new testament: that by means of his death, for the redemption of those transgressions, which were under the former testament, they that are called may receive the promise of eternal inheritance.

[Responsory1]
R. Jesus also, that He might sanctify the people with His own Blood, suffered without the gate.
* Let us go forth therefore unto Him without the camp, bearing His reproach.
V. Ye have not yet resisted unto blood, striving against sin.
R. Let us go forth therefore unto Him without the gate, bearing His reproach.

[Lectio2]
!Heb 9:16-22
6 For where there is a testament, the death of the testator must of necessity come in.
17 For a testament is of force, after men are dead: otherwise it is as yet of no strength, whilst the testator liveth.
18 Whereupon neither was the first indeed dedicated without blood.
19 For when every commandment of the law had been read by Moses to all the people, he took the blood of calves and goats, with water, and scarlet wool and hyssop, and sprinkled both the book itself and all the people,
20 Saying: This is the blood of the testament, which God hath enjoined unto you.
21 The tabernacle also and all the vessels of the ministry, in like manner, he sprinkled with blood.
22 And almost all things, according to the law, are cleansed with blood: and without shedding of blood there is no remission.

[Responsory2]
R. Moses took the blood, and sprinkled all the people;
* Saying: This is the blood of the Testament which God hath enjoined unto you.
V. Through faith he kept the Passover, and the sprinkling of blood, lest he that destroyed the first-born should touch them.
R. Saying: This is the blood of the Testament which God hath enjoined unto you.

[Lectio3]
!Heb 10:19-24
19 Having therefore, brethren, a confidence in the entering into the holies by the blood of Christ;
20 A new and living way which he hath dedicated for us through the veil, that is to say, his flesh,
21 And a high priest over the house of God:
22 Let us draw near with a true heart in fulness of faith, having our hearts sprinkled from an evil conscience, and our bodies washed with clean water.
23 Let us hold fast the confession of our hope without wavering (for he is faithful that hath promised),
24 And let us consider one another, to provoke unto charity and to good works:

[Responsory3]
R. Ye, who sometimes were far off, are made nigh by the Blood of Christ.
* For He is our Peace, Who hath made both one.
V. It pleased [the Father that in Him should all fulness dwell, and,] having made peace through the Blood of His Cross, by Him to reconcile all things unto Himself, [by Him, I say,] whether they be things in earth or things in heaven.
R. For He is our Peace, Who hath made both one.
&Gloria
R. For He is our Peace, Who hath made both one.

[Lectio4]
From the Sermons of St. John Chrysostom, Archbishop of Constantinople
!Homily 84 in John, cap. 19
Wouldest thou hear the power of the Blood of Christ? Then let us look at the figure thereof, let us call to mind the old type, and tell the story written in the ancient Scriptures. The Egyptians would not let God take away Israel His firstborn, And Moses said: Thus saith the Lord: About midnight will I go out into the midst of Egypt, and all the first-born in the land of Egypt shall die, from the first-born of Pharaoh that sitteth upon his throne unto the first-born of the maid-servant that is behind the mill, and all the first-born of beasts. And there shall be a great cry throughout all the land of Egypt, such as there was none like it, nor shall be like it any more. But against any of the children of Israel shall not a dog move his tongue, against man or beast that ye may know how that the Lord hath put a difference between the Egyptians and Israel. (Ex. xi. 4-7.) Then Moses called for all the elders of Israel, and said unto them: Draw out and take you a lamb according to your families and kill the Passover. And ye shall take a bunch of hyssop and dip it in the blood that is in the basin, and strike the lintel and the two side-posts with the blood. and when He seeth the blood upon the lintel and on the two side-posts, the Lord will pass over the door, and will not suffer the destroyer to come in unto your houses to smite you. (xii. 21-23.) And could the blood of a sheep save a man Yea, in good sooth not because it was blood, but because it represented in a figure the Blood of the Lord.

[Responsory4]
R. Pass the time of your sojourning here in fear, forasmuch as:
* Ye know that ye were not redeemed with corruptible things, as silver and gold
V. But with the Precious Blood of Christ, as of a lamb without spot.
R. Ye know that ye were not redeemed with corruptible things, as silver and gold.

[Lectio5]
The statues of monarchs, mindless and speechless images though they be, have sometimes been an helpful refuge to men endowed with soul and reason, not because they are works of the brazier's skill, but because the likeness they bear is a King's. And just so did this unconscious blood deliver the lives of men, not because it was blood, but because it foreshadowed the shedding of the Blood of Jesus. On that night in Egypt, when the destroying Angel saw the blood upon the lintel and on the two side-posts, he passed over the door, and came not in unto the house. Even so now much more will the destroyer of souls flee away when he seeth, not the lintel and the two side-posts sprinkled with the blood of a lamb, but the mouth of the faithful Christian, the living dwelling of the Holy Ghost, shining with the blood of the True Messiah. If the Angel let the type be, how shall not the enemy quail before the Reality? Wouldest thou hear more of the power of that Blood I am willing. Consider from what source it welleth, from what fountain it springeth. Its fountain is the Heart of the Lord, pierced for us upon the Cross. Then came the soldiers, and brake the legs of the first, and of the other which was crucified with Him but when they came to Jesus, and saw that He was dead already, they brake not His Legs, but one of the soldiers with a spear pierced His Side, and forthwith came thereout Blood and Water, (John xix, 32-34,) whereof One is a figure of Baptism, and the other of the Sacrament (of the Altar.) One of the soldiers with a spear pierced His Side the veil of the Temple of His Body was rent in twain. (John ii. 19-21, Matth. xxvii. 51.) O how glorious is the treasure that is laid open to me therein How noble the riches that it is my joy there to have found!

[Responsory5]
R. Ye are bought with a great price, therefore:
* Glorify God and bear Him in your body.
V. Ye are bought with a price be not ye the servants of men.
R. Glorify God and bear Him in your body.

[Lectio6]
And so was it done concerning that Lamb: the Jews killed a sheep, and I have learned the value of the sacrament. From the Side flowed forth Blood and Water. I would not, O my hearer, that thou shouldest pass by the depths of such a mystery as this without pausing; for I have yet a mystic and mysterious discourse to deliver. I have said that the Water and Blood shewed forth symbolically baptism and the sacraments. For from these, holy Church was founded by the laver of regeneration, and the renovation of the Holy Ghost. Through baptism, I say, and through the sacraments, which seem to have issued from his Side. It was therefore out of the Side of Christ that the Church was created, just as it was out of the side of Adam that Eve was raised up to be his bride. This is the reason why Paul saith, no doubt in allusion to his Side: We are members of his Body, and of his bones. For even as God made the woman Eve out of the rib which he had taken out of the side of Adam, so hath Christ made the Church out of the Blood and Water which he made to flow for us out of his own Side. -On the occasion of the nineteenth centenary of the accomplishment of the redemption of mankind, as a fitting celebration of this ineffable blessing, Pope Pius XI decreed an extraordinary Jubilee. During that year the Supreme Pontiff, wishing that the fruits of the Precious Blood of Christ, the Lamb without spot, might redound more abundantly upon mankind and that the minds of the faithful be impressed with more vivid recollections of this same Blood as the price of their redemption, elevated the Feast of the Most Precious Blood of our Lord Jesus Christ to the rank of a double of the first class, to be celebrated as such every year by the universal Church.

[Responsory6]
R. God commendeth His love toward us:
* In that, while we were yet sinners, in due time Christ died for us.
V. Much more then being now justified by His Blood, we shall be saved from wrath through Him.
R. In that, while we were yet sinners, in due time Christ died for us.
&Gloria
R. In that, while we were yet sinners, in due time Christ died for us.

[Lectio7]
From the Holy Gospel according to John
!John 19:30-35
At that time: When Jesus had received the vinegar, He said: It is finished. And He bowed His Head, and gave up the ghost. And so on.
_
Homily by St. Augustine, Bishop of Hippo
!120th Tract on John
One of the soldiers with a spear pierced His Side, and forthwith came thereout Blood and Water. The Evangelist speaketh carefully. He saith not that he smote the Side, nor yet that he wounded It, nor yet anything else, but pierced pierced It, to fling wide the entrance unto life, whence flow the Sacraments of the Church, those Sacraments without which there is no entrance unto the life which is life indeed. That Blood which was shed there was shed for the remission of sins, that Water is the water that mantleth in the cup of salvation. Therein are we washed, and thereof do we drink. Of this was it a type when it was said unto Noah: The door of the ark shalt thou set in the side thereof and of every living thing of all flesh shalt thou bring into the ark to keep them alive. (Gen. vi. 16, 19.) A figure this of the Church. Thus was it that the first woman was made from the side of her husband while he slept, and she was called (Eve, which is, being interpreted,) Life, because she was the mother of all living. (Gen. iii. 20.) This name set forth a great good, before it became associated with the bitter fruit of a great evil. And here we have the Second Adam bowing His Head, and the deep sleep of death falling upon Him upon the Cross, and He sleepeth, that the Lord God may take a thing out of His side, and may make thereof a wife for Him. O what a death was His, which quickeneth the dead! What is cleaner than His Blood? What more health-giving than His wounding?

[Responsory7]
R. This is He That came by Water and Blood, even Jesus Christ;
* Not by Water only, but by Water and Blood.
V. In that day there shall be a fountain opened to the house of David and to the inhabitants of Jerusalem, for sin and for uncleanness.
R. Not by Water only, but by Water and Blood.

[Lectio8]
!Enarr. in Psalm 95, n. 5
Then were being held bondsmen to the devil, slaves to evil spirits. But they have been redeemed from that bondage. They had been able to sell themselves, but they were not able to redeem themselves. A Redeemer came and paid the price for them. He shed His Blood, and at that cost bought the world. Ye ask what He bought Look what He paid, and ye shall see what He bought. Christ's Blood was the price. What is His Blood worth? What, but the whole world What but all men They are very unthankful for His redemption, or very proud, who say that It is only precious enough to buy the Africans, or that they themselves are so precious that It was shed only for them. Let there be an end to such conceit, an end to such vainglory. What He paid, He paid for all.

[Responsory8]
R. God hath predestinated us unto the adoption of children by Jesus Christ;
* In Whom we have redemption through His Blood.
V. The forgiveness of sins, according to the riches of His grace, wherein He hath abounded toward us.
R. In Whom we have redemption through His Blood.
&Gloria
R. In Whom we have redemption through His Blood.

[Lectio9]
!Sermon 31, alias 344
That Blood was his own, and thereby he redeemed us. Yea, it was to this end that he took Flesh and Blood, namely that he might shed his Blood in order to redeem us. If thou wilt accept it, the Blood of thy Lord was given for thee. If thou wilt not accept it, it was not given for thee. For perchance thou sayest: My God had Blood, with which he redeemed me, but now since he hath suffered, he hath given it all; what hath remained to him, that he may also give any of it for me? This is a great thing, because he gave once, and he gave for all. The Blood of Christ is salvation to him that doth accept it, punishment to him that doth not accept it. Why therefore dost thou hesitate to be set free from the second death, thou who dost not wish to die? By this thou art set free, if thou art willing to take up thy Cross, and follow the Lord; for he took up his Cross and sought his servant.
&teDeum

[Ant Laudes]
Tito, kteří jsou oděni * v bílé oděvy, kdo jsou a odkud přicházejí?
To jsou ti, * kteří přišli z velkého soužení a vyprali si své oděvy v krvi Beránkově.
Proto jsou * před trůnem Božím a slouží mu ve dne v noci.
A oni přemohli * draka díky krvi Beránkově a díky smlouvě jeho Slova.
Blažení, * kdo si vyprali své oděvy v krvi Beránkově.

[Capitulum Laudes]
!Židům 9:11-12
v. Bratři, Kristus přišel jako velekněz budoucích hodnot; prošel stánkem větším a dokonalejším, který není udělán lidskýma rukama, to je: nenáleží k tomuto stvořenému světu, a vešel jednou provždy do Svatyně, a nám získal věčné vykoupení.
$Deo gratias

[Hymnus Laudes]
v. Zdravím vás, rány Kristovy,
Nesmírné lásky zástavy,
Jimiž ty věčné potůčky
Vytékaly krve rudé.
_
Svou září hvězdy zdoláte,
Růže vůní, i balzámy,
Svou cenou kámen léčivý,
I plástve medu sladkostí.
_
Vámi vzniká to přemilé
Myslí našich útočiště,
Nikdy sem totiž nevnikne
Nepřátel zloba hrozících.
_
Co Ježíš ve vládním domě
Ran bičem nahý obdržel!
Co ran na kůži všude jen
Dává té krve kapičky!
_
Čelo ctnostné, ach jaký děs!
Koruna z trnů probodá,
Hřebů pak hroty ztupené
Nohy, ruce prorážejí.
_
Poté však on sám odevzdal
S láskou, svobodně, duši svou,
Hruď probodena kopím skrz,
A voda s krví vytekly z ní.
_
By plné bylo spasení,
Co v lisu celý vymačkán,
Na sebe Ježíš nehledě,
Sobě nenechá žádnou krev.
_
Přijďte, třeba s mnoha hříchy,
Jež smutný pád prv způsobil,
Kdo se v této spásné lázni
Umyje, bude očištěn.
_
Kdož na pravici Otcově
Sedí, budiž jemu sláva,
Kdož nás svou krví vykoupil,
Svatým též sílí nás Duchem.
Amen.

[Versum 2]
V. Ospravedlněni v krvi Kristově.
R. Zbaveni budeme od hněvu skrze něho.

[Ant 2]
Bude vám krev Beránkova * na znamení, praví Pán; a když uvidím krev, převedu vás, a nedotkne se vám ničivá rána.

[Versum Prima]
Thou, who redeemed us with your blood.

[Lectio Prima]
!Heb 9:19-20
v. Neboť když Mojžíš ohlásil celému shromáždění všechna nařízení Zákona, vzal yzop se šarlatovou vlnou a pokropil jak knihu samu, tak všechen lid krví telat a kozlů smíchanou s vodou a řekl: 'Toto je krev smlouvy, kterou s vámi uzavřel Bůh'.

[Responsory Tertia]
R.br. Vykoupil jsi nás, Pane: * Svou krví.
R. Vykoupil jsi nás, Pane: * Svou krví.
V. Z každého kmene, i jazyka, a lidu, i národa.
R. Svou krví.
&Gloria
R. Vykoupil jsi nás, Pane: * Svou krví.
_
V. Krev Ježíše Krista, Syna Božího.
R. Očistí nás od každého hříchu.

[Capitulum Sexta]
!Heb 9:13-14
v. Jestliže už samo pokropení krví kozlů, býků a popel z jalovice posvěcuje ty, kteří jsou nečistí, k čistotě těla, čím spíše krev Krista, který skrze věčného Ducha sám sebe přinesl Bohu jako oběť bez poskvrny, očistí naše svědomí od mrtvých skutků, abychom mohli sloužit Bohu živému.
$Deo gratias

[Responsory Sexta]
R.br. Krev Ježíše Krista, Syna Božího, * Očistí nás.
R. Krev Ježíše Krista, Syna Božího, * Očistí nás.
V. Od každého hříchu.
R. Očistí nás.
&Gloria
R. Krev Ježíše Krista, Syna Božího, * Očistí nás.
_
V. Kristus si nás zamiloval.
R. A obmyl nás od našich hříchů ve své Krvi.

[Responsory Nona]
R.br. Kristus si nás zamiloval a obmyl nás * ve své Krvi.
R. Kristus si nás zamiloval a obmyl nás * ve své Krvi.
V. A učinil nás královstvím i kněžstvem Bohu a Otci.
R. Ve své Krvi.
&Gloria
R. Kristus si nás zamiloval a obmyl nás * ve své Krvi.
_
V. Ospravedlnění v krvi Kristově.
R. Vysvobozeni budeme od hněvu skrze něj.

[Versum 3]
V. Prosíme tě tedy, pomoz svým služebníkům.
R. Jež jsi svou předrahou krví vykoupil.

[Ant 3]
Budete tedy * mít tento den jako památku; a budete jej slavit jako slavnost Páně po všechna vaše pokolení navěky.
