[Rank]
Proměnění našeho Pána Ježíše Krista

[Ant Vespera]
Vzal Ježíš * Petra, a Jakuba, a Jana, jeho bratra, a vyvedl je na velmi vysokou horu, a byl před nimi proměněn.
Rozzářila se * jeho tvář jako slunce, a jeho oděv se stal bílým jako sníh, alleluja.
A hle, * zjevili se jim Mojžíš a Eliáš, a hovořili s Ježíšem.
Odpověděl pak Petr * a řekl Ježíšovi: Pane, je dobře, že jsme zde.
Ještě když mluvil, * hle, zářivý oblak je zastínil.

[Hymnus Vespera]
v. Všichni, kdo Krista hledáte,
Oči do výše zvedněte:
Tam uzříti se poštěstí
Věčné to slávy znamení.
_
Cosi zářivé vidíme,
Co konec míti nesnese,
Vznešené, z výše, bez konce,
Starší než peklo i nebe.
_
On slavný jest pohanů Král,
Král lidu židovského též,
Zaslíben Abrahámovi,
I jeho dětem navěky.
_
Jak svědčí svatí Proroci,
Když o znameních hovoří;
Též Otec káže a svědčí,
poslouchat, věřit vše musí.
_
* Jesu, to thee our praise we pay,
To little ones revealed today,
With Father and blest Spirit One
Until the ages' course is done.
Amen.

[Doxology]
Jesu, to thee our praise we pay,
To little ones revealed today,
With Father and blest Spirit One
Until the ages' course is done.
Amen.

[Doxology](rubrica monastica aut rubrica 1570 aut rubrica cisterciensis)
@Psalterium/Doxologies:EpiT

[Versum 1]
V. Slavným ses vyjevil před tváří Hospodinovou.
R. Proto tě Hospodin oděl v krásu.

[Ant 1]
Kristus Ježíš, * záře Otcova a předobraz jeho přirozenosti, nesl vše slovem své moci, učinil očištění hříchů, když se dnes ráčil slavně zjevit na vysoké hoře.

[Oratio]
Bože, jenž jsi tajemství víry slavným Proměněním dle svědectví otců upevnil, a dokonalé přijetí za syny jsi hlasem, který vyšel ze zářivého oblaku, podivuhodně předznamenal; uděl laskavě, abys nás učinil spoludědici tohoto Krále slávy, a na jeho slávě nám též dal podíl.
$Per eumdem

[Invit]
The Most High King, the King of glory, even Christ, * Him let us worship.

[Ant Matutinum]
Even while He was made a little lower than the angels, * He was crowned with glory and honour, and made to have dominion over the works of God's hands.;;8
The Lord discovered the thickets, * and in His temple every whit of it uttereth His glory.;;28
Thou art fairer than the children of men * grace is poured into thy lips.;;44.
When Thou didst make thy light to shine forth right wondrously * from the everlasting hills, all they that were foolish of heart were troubled.;;75
A day in thy courts * is better than a thousand.;;83
Glorious things are spoken * of thee, O city of God!;;86
Tabor and Hermon shall rejoice in thy Name. * Thou hast a mighty arm.;;88
Light is sprung up for the righteous, * and gladness for the upright in heart.;;96
He was clothed with honour and majesty, * covering Himself with light as with a garment.;;103

[Nocturn 2 Versum]
V. Slávou a ctí jsi jej korunoval, Pane, alleluja.
R. A ustanovil jsi jej nad dílem svých rukou, alleluja.

[Nocturn 3 Versum]
V. Veliká jest jeho sláva ve tvé spáse, alleluja.
R. Slávu i velikou krásu na něj vložíš, alleluja.

[Lectio1]
Lesson from the second letter of St. Peter the Apostle
!2 Pet 1:10-14
10 Wherefore, brethren, labour the more, that by good works you may make sure your calling and election. For doing these things, you shall not sin at any time.
11 For so an entrance shall be ministered to you abundantly into the everlasting kingdom of our Lord and Saviour Jesus Christ.
12 For which cause I will begin to put you always in remembrance of these things: though indeed you know them, and are confirmed in the present truth.
13 But I think it meet as long as I am in this tabernacle, to stir you up by putting you in remembrance.
14 Being assured that the laying away of this my tabernacle is at hand, according as our Lord Jesus Christ also hath signified to me.

[Responsory1]
R. Arise, shine, O Jerusalem, for thy light is come:
* And the glory of the Lord is risen upon thee.
V. And the Gentiles shall come to thy light, and kings to the brightness of thy rising.
R. And the glory of the Lord is risen upon thee.

[Lectio2]
!2 Pet 1:15-17
15 And I will endeavour, that you frequently have after my decease, whereby you may keep a memory of these things.
16 For we have not by following artificial fables, made known to you the power, and presence of our Lord Jesus Christ; but we were eyewitnesses of his greatness.
17 For he received from God the Father, honour and glory: this voice coming down to him from the excellent glory: This is my beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased; hear ye him.

[Responsory2]
R. The Holy Ghost was manifested in the bright cloud and the Father was heard:
* This is My beloved Son, in Whom I am well pleased; hear ye Him.
V. There was a cloud that overshadowed them, and the voice of the Father came out thereof in thunder.
R. This is My beloved Son, in Whom I am well pleased; hear ye Him.

[Lectio3]
!2 Pet 1:18-21
18 And this voice we heard brought from heaven, when we were with him in the holy mount.
19 And we have the more firm prophetical word: whereunto you do well to attend, as to a light that shineth in a dark place, until the day dawn, and the day star arise in your hearts:
20 Understanding this first, that no prophecy of scripture is made by private interpretation.
21 For prophecy came not by the will of man at any time: but the holy men of God spoke, inspired by the Holy Ghost.

[Responsory3]
R. Behold what manner of love God the Father hath bestowed upon us,
* That we should be called, and should be, the sons of God.
V. We know that when He shall appear, we shall be like Him, for we shall see Him as He is.
R. That we should be called, and should be, the Sons of God.
&Gloria
R. That we should be called, and should be, the Sons of God.

[Lectio4]
From the Sermons of Pope St. Leo (the Great)
!On the Transfiguration
The Lord taketh chosen witnesses, and in their presence, revealeth His glory. That form of body which He had in common with other men, He so transfigured with light, that His Face did shine as the sun, and His raiment became exceeding white as snow. Of this metamorphosis the chief work was to remove from the hearts of the disciples the stumbling at the Cross. Before their eyes was unveiled the splendour of His hidden majesty, that the lowliness of His freely-chosen suffering might not confound their faith. But none the less was there here laid by the Providence of God a solid foundation for the hope of the Holy Church, whereby the whole body of Christ should know with what a change it is yet to be honoured. The members of that body whose Head hath already been transfigured in light may promise themselves a share in His glory.

[Responsory4]
R. They were abundantly satisfied with the fatness of thy house, and
* Thou madest them drink of the river of thy pleasures.
V. For with thee is the fountain of life, and in thy light shall we see light.
R. And Thou madest them drink of the river of thy pleasures.

[Lectio5]
For the strengthening the Apostles and bringing them forward into all knowledge, there appeared unto them Moses and Elias that is, the Law and the Prophets talking with Him. Before five witnesses did His glorification take place, as though to fulfill that which is written: At the mouth of two witnesses, or at the mouth of three witnesses, shall the matter be established. (Deut. xix. 15.) What can be more certain, what can be better attested than this matter, which is proclaimed by the trumpets of both the Old and the New Testaments, and concerning which the witness of ancient testimony uniteth with the teaching of the Gospel The pages of either Covenant strengthen one another, and the brightness of open glory maketh manifest and distinct Him Whom the former prophecies had promised under the veil of mysteries.

[Responsory5]
R. Master, it is good for us to be here.
* Let us make here three tabernacles, one for thee, and one for Moses, and one for Elias.
V. For he wist not what to say.
R. Let us make here three tabernacles, one for thee, and one for Moses, and one for Elias.

[Lectio6]
The unveiling of such mysteries roused the mind of the Apostle Peter to an outburst of longing for the things eternal, which despised and disdained the things worldly and earthly overflowing with gladness at the vision, he yearned to dwell with Jesus there, where the revelation of His glory had rejoiced him. And so he said Master, it is good for us to be here if Thou wilt, let us make here three tabernacles, one for thee, and one for Moses, and one for Elias. To this proposal the Lord answered nothing, this signifying, that what Peter wished was not wrong, but out of place, since the world could not be saved but by the death of Christ. And the Lord's example was to call the faith of believers to this, that albeit we are behoven to have no doubts concerning the promise of eternal blessedness, yet we are to understand that, amid the trials of this life, we are to seek for endurance before glory.

[Responsory6]
R. If the ministration of death, written and engraven on stones, was glorious, so that the children of Israel could not steadfastly behold the face of Moses, for the glory of his countenance which is done away:
* How shall not the ministration of the Spirit, which abideth, be rather glorious?
V. For Christ was counted worthy of more glory than Moses, inasmuch as he who hath builded the house hath more honour than the house.
R. How shall not the ministration of the Spirit, which abideth, be rather glorious?
&Gloria
R. How shall not the ministration of the Spirit, which abideth, be rather glorious?

[Lectio7]
From the Holy Gospel according to Matthew
!Matt 17:1-9
At that time: Jesus took Peter, and James, and John his brother, and brought them up into an high mountain apart, and was transfigured before them. And so on.
_
Homily by St. John Chrysostom (Patriarch of Constantinople)
!57th on Matthew
Since the Lord had spoken much concerning dangers, much concerning His Own sufferings, much concerning death, and the killing of His disciples, and had laid upon them many hard and grievous things, and since all these were in this present life, and already hanging over them, whereas the good things were matter for hope and waiting as, for example, that whosoever should lose his life for His sake should find it, for that the Son of Man should come in the glory of His Father, and reward every man according to his works. (Matth. xvi. 25, 27.) Therefore, to assure them by their own eyes, and show them what the glory is wherein He will come, He manifested and unveiled it to them, as far as in this life they were able to grasp it, lest they and especially Peter should grieve over their own deaths, or the death of their Lord.

[Responsory7]
R. God hath called us with an holy calling, according to His own grace, which is now made manifest;
* By the appearing of our Saviour Jesus Christ.
V. Who hath abolished death, and brought life and immortality to light.
R. By the appearing of our Saviour Jesus Christ.

[Lectio8]
Behold what He doth, when He treateth of heaven and hell. Where He saith Whosoever will save his life shall lose it, and whosoever will lose his life for My sake shall find it. And again He shall reward every man according to his works in these words He pointeth at heaven and hell. But although He speaketh concerning both, He giveth a glimpse of heaven only and not of hell. To see hell would have profited the brutish and stupid, but His disciples were upright and clear-sighted, and therefore for them it was enough to be strengthened by the better things. This was what suited Him the best. Yet He left not the other altogether undone. Sometimes He set the horrors of hell, as it were, before the eyes, as for instance in the parable of the rich man and Lazarus, and that of him who was fain to wring the hundred pence from his fellow-servant.

[Responsory8]
R. God, Who commanded the light to shine out of darkness, hath shined in our hearts,
* To give the light of the knowledge of the glory of God, in the Face of Jesus Christ.
V. Unto the upright there ariseth light in the darkness he is gracious and full of compassion, and righteous.
R. To give the light of the knowledge of the glory of God, in the Face of Jesus Christ.
&Gloria
R. To give the light of the knowledge of the glory of God, in the Face of Jesus Christ.

[Lectio9]
But mark well Matthew's good will, in not concealing the names of those who were preferred. John also likewise often recordeth the special praises of Peter with great truthfulness and care. For in this companionship of the Apostles, there was no envy, nor did vainglory find place. It was therefore the leaders of the Apostles whom Christ took apart from the others. And wherefore did he take these only? Because there were evidently superior to the rest. And why did he not do this straightway, and not until after six days? Evidently to spare the natural feelings of the other disciples; and for the same reason Christ did not for six days announce who were to go up.
&teDeum

[Lectio93]
!For S. Xystus II Pope, Felicissimus and Agapitus, Martyrs
Xystus II. was an Athenian, who, from a philosopher, became a disciple of Christ. In the persecution under Valerian he was accused of openly preaching Christ, and was seized and haled to the temple of Mars, where he was given the choice of death or offering sacrifice to the idol. He firmly refused to commit that wickedness, and as he was being led away to seal his testimony, holy Lawrence ran up to him and in his grief said to him Father, whither goest thou without thy son Holy Priest, dost thou fare hence without a Deacon? Xystus answered him: I am not leaving thee, my son there awaiteth thee for Christ's truth a sterner wrestling than mine yet three days, and thou shalt follow me, the Deacon behind the Priest and in the meanwhile, if thou hast anything in the treasury, give it to the poor. Xystus was accordingly slain upon that day, and with him the Deacons Felicissimus and Agapitus, and the Subdeacons Januarius, Magnus, Vincent, and Stephen. He was buried in the cemetery of Callistus, and they in the cemetery of Praetextatus upon the 6th day of August, (in the year of our Lord 258.) He sat (in the throne of Peter) eleven months and twelve days. During that time he held one ordination in the month of December, wherein he made four Priests, seven Deacons, and two Bishops.
&teDeum

[Capitulum Laudes]
!Filipským 3:20-21
v. Očekáváme Spasitele našeho Pána Ježíše Krista, jenž přemění naše ubohé tělo, aby nabylo stejné podoby jako jeho tělo oslavené.
$Deo gratias

[Responsory Laudes] (rubrica cisterciensis)
R.br. Slavným ses ukázal * Před tváří Hospodinovou.
R. Slavným ses ukázal * Před tváří Hospodinovou.
V. Proto tě Hospodin oděl krásou.
R. Před tváří Hospodinovou.

[Hymnus Laudes]
v. Lásko, Ježíši nejsladší,
Naše srdce když navštívíš,
Mysli temnotu zapudíš,
A nás sladkostí naplníš.
_
Jak šťasten, koho nasytíš!
Na pravici Otce sedíš;
Tys pravé světlo domova,
Jež všechny smysly překoná.
_
Ty lesku slávy Otcovy,
Ty nedostižná dobroto!
Lásky své velikou hojnost
Nám dej pro naši současnost.
_
Sláva buď tobě, Pane náš,
že zjevil ses dnes slavně nám;
A s Otcem i svatým Duchem,
Ty vládneš věčným věkům všem.
Amen.

[HymnusM Laudes]
@:Hymnus Laudes

[Versum 2]
V. Zlatá koruna na jeho hlavě.
R. Je jasné znamení svatosti, slávy a cti.

[Ant 2]
A hle, * ozval se hlas z oblaku a řekl: Toto je můj milovaný Syn, v němž jsem našel zalíbení, toho poslouchejte, alleluja.

[Commemoratio 2]
!Commemoration of Ss. Xystus, Felicissimus and Agapitus, Martyrs
@Commune/C3:Oratio proper
$Oremus
v. O God, Who dost gladden us by the yearly Feast-day of thine holy Martyrs, Xystus, Felicissimus et Agapitus, mercifully grant unto us who keep their birthday, the strength to imitate their patience under suffering.
$Per Dominum

[Lectio Prima]
!Zjevení 21:10-11,23.
v. Přenesl mě v duchu na velikou a vysokou horu, a ukázal mi svaté město Jerusalém, jak sestupuje z nebe od Boha a září Boží vznešeností. Jeho světlem je Beránek.

[Responsory Breve Tertia]
R.br. Slavným ses ukázal před tváří Hospodinovou. * Alleluja, alleluja.
R. Slavným ses ukázal před tváří Hospodinovou. * Alleluja, alleluja.
V. Proto tě Hospodin oděl krásou.
R. Alleluja, alleluja.
&Gloria
R. Slavným ses ukázal před tváří Hospodinovou. * Alleluja, alleluja.

[Capitulum Sexta]
!2 Kor 3:18
v. My všichni s odhalenou tváří odrážíme jako v zrcadle velebnost Páně, a tak se přetvořujeme stále víc a víc k zářivé podobě, jakou má Duch Páně.
$Deo gratias

[Responsory Breve Sexta]
R.br. Slávou a ctí jsi jej korunoval, Pane. * Alleluja, Alleluja.
R. Slávou a ctí jsi jej korunoval, Pane. * Alleluja, Alleluja.
V. A ustanovil jsi jej nad dílem svých rukou.
R. Alleluja, Alleluja.
&Gloria
R. Slávou a ctí jsi jej korunoval, Pane. * Alleluja, Alleluja.

[Responsory Breve Nona]
R.br. Veliká jest jeho sláva ve tvé spáse. * Alleluja, Alleluja.
R. Veliká jest jeho sláva ve tvé spáse. * Alleluja, Alleluja.
V. Slávu i velikou krásu na něj vložíš.
R. Alleluja, Alleluja.
&Gloria
R. Veliká jest jeho sláva ve tvé spáse. * Alleluja, Alleluja.

[Ant 3]
A když to uslyšeli * učedníci, padli na své tváře a dostali veliký strach; i přišel k nim Ježíš, dotkl se jich, a řekl jim: Vstaňte, a nebojte se, alleluja.
