[Rank]
Nanebevzetí Nejblahoslavenější Panny Marie

[Hymnus Vespera]
v. O Virgin thou, the spirit's fair'st,
Predestined by the will divine,
Within thy sacred womb thou bear'st
His only Son, and also thine.
_
O thou in whom rich grace abounds,
Foretold thou wast to be the foe
Who in her origin confounds
The wicked demon here below.
_
Within thy womb anew Life's made,
The very life by Adam lost
Has been renewed by thee, sweet maid,
Who didst provide the holocaust.
_
Thy will immersed in Jesus' own,
Atoning for the sins of all,
He raises thee to Heaven's throne,
In victory o'er death's dread thrall.
_
In thy great glory burning bright
Exalted nature sings the praise,
And unto beauty's very height,
Dost honor and all glory raise.
_
Triumphant Queen to Heaven borne,
Upon us exiles turn thy sight,
That to the ever-blessed morn
We may be guided by thy light.
_
All honor, laud, and glory be,
O Jesu, Virgin-born to thee;
All glory, as is ever meet
To Father and to Paraclete. 
Amen.

[Hymnus Vespera] (rubrica cisterciensis)
Ó, jakým přeslavným světlem nám záříš,
Z rodu Davidova královská dcero!
V nebesích přebýváš, Panno Maria,
Mezi nebešťany v povětří všemi.
_
Ty ve své panenské, Matko, vážnosti
Andělskému Pánu síň svého srdce
V svatém jsi nitru svém čistá zchystala;
Zrodil se odsud Bůh, v těle svém, Kristus.
_
Jemu se celý svět v úctě své klaní,
Před ním právem každé koleno klesá,
Od něj my žádáme, když ty přicházíš,
By temno zavrhnul, světla dal radost.
_
To uděl nám, Otče, světla každého,
Syna skrz vlastního Ducha svatého,
Jenž s tebou v zářivých výšinách živý,
Vládne a po všechny věky vše řídí.
Amen.

[Oratio]
Všemohoucí věčný Bože, jenž jsi Neposkvrněnou Pannu Marii, Rodičku tvého Syna, v těle i duši přijal do nebeské slávy; uděl, prosíme, abychom vždy hleděli na věci nebeské, a zasloužili si účastnit se její slávy.
$Per eumdem

[Octava 1]
!Commemoration of the Octave of the Assumption of the B.M.V.
Ant. Today the Blessed Virgin Mary * ascended to heaven, rejoice, she reigns with Christ forever.
_
V. The holy Mother of God hath been exalted.
R. Over choirs of Angels, into the heavenly kingdom.
_
$Oremus
Všemohoucí věčný Bože, jenž jsi Neposkvrněnou Pannu Marii, Rodičku tvého Syna, v těle i duši přijal do nebeské slávy; uděl, prosíme, abychom vždy hleděli na věci nebeské, a zasloužili si účastnit se její slávy.
$Per eumdem

[Hymnus Matutinum]
v. Arise! the cold blasts from earth have receded,
And in the field are lovely flowers smiling,
For thee, O gracious Mother, bearer of Life,
Arise, O Mary!
_
Beautiful Lily blooming 'mid the brambles,
Death's haughty author thou alone didst conquer,
Plucking life-giving tree of fruits the fathers
By sin did not taste.
_
Ark of sweet wood not destined for ruin,
Holding the manna, whence springeth forth the power
Summoning forth the bones again arisen
From depths of the tomb.
_
Thou handmaid, faithful to the Ruler of hearts,
Thy flesh cruel decay could never touch,
Thy soul of Spirit partaking without end,
Hath winged to the stars.
_
Leaning on thy beloved, arise, go heav'nward!
Accept the crown with stars for thee bedecked,
List to the hymn thy children sing on this day,
Calling thee blessed.
_
Praise to the Triune Godhead everlasting,
Who hath caused thee, O Virgin, to be crowned,
And providently willed our Queen thou shouldst be
Also our Mother.
Amen.

[Ant Matutinum]
Povýšena jest * svatá Boží Rodička nad sbory Andělů do nebeských říší.;;8
Brány ráje * se nám skrze tebe otevřely, ty dnes slavně s Anděly vítězíš.;;18
Požehnaná jsi * mezi ženami a požehnaný plod života tvého.;;23
V kráse své * a v spanilosti své vyraz, zdárně postupuj a kraluj.;;44
Posvětil * Nejvyšší svůj stánek.;;45
Slavné věci * se o tobě vypravují, Panno Maria.;;86
Raduj se, Panno Maria: * ty sama jsi zničila všechny bludy na celém světě.;;95
Nebesa hlásají * jeho spravedlnost a všechny národy vidí jeho slávu.;;96
Zpívejte Pánu * píseň novou, neboť na tobě vykonal podivuhodné věci, ó Maria.;;97 

[Lectio1]
Čtení z knihy Genesis
!Gen 3:9-15
9 Hospodin Bůh zavolal na člověka a řekl mu: „Kde jsi?“
10 On odpověděl: „Slyšel jsem tvůj hlas v zahradě a bál jsem se, že jsem nahý, a proto jsem se skryl.“
11 Bůh řekl: „Kdopak ti pověděl, že jsi nahý? Jistě jsi jedl ze stromu, z něhož jsem ti zakázal jíst!“
12 Člověk odpověděl: „Žena, kterou jsi mi dal, ta mi dala z toho stromu, a tak jsem jedl.“
13 Hospodin Bůh se zeptal ženy: „Cos to udělala?“ Žena odpověděla: „Had mě svedl, a tak jsem jedla.“
14 Tu řekl Hospodin Bůh hadovi: „Protože jsi to udělal, buď zlořečený mezi všemi krotkými i divokými zvířaty. Budeš se plazit po břichu a žrát prach po všechny dny svého života.
15 Nepřátelství ustanovuji mezi tebou a ženou, mezi potomstvem tvým a jejím. Její potomstvo ti rozdrtí hlavu, zatímco ty budeš šlapat po jeho patě.“

[Lectio2]
Čtení z prvního listu svatého Apoštola Pavla Korinťanům
!1 Kor 15:20-26
20 Ale Kristus z mrtvých vstal, a to jako první z těch, kteří zesnuli.
21 Protože smrt přišla skrze člověka, přijde skrze člověka také vzkříšení mrtvých.
22 Jako totiž pro spojení s Adamem všichni propadli smrti, tak zase pro svoje spojení s Kristem všichni budou povoláni k životu.
23 Ale každý v tom pořadí, jaké mu patří: na prvním místě je Kristus, pak ti, kteří jsou Kristovi, až přijde.
24 Potom nastane konec, až odevzdá své království Bohu a Otci a až zlomí vládu všech mocných knížat, mocností a sil.
25 On totiž musí kralovat, 'dokud mu Bůh nepoloží všechny jeho nepřátele k nohám'.
26 Jako poslední nepřítel pak bude zničena smrt.

[Lectio3]
!1 Kor 15:53-57
53 Toto tělo porušitelné musí totiž na sebe vzít neporušitelnost, a toto tělo smrtelné musí na sebe vzít nesmrtelnost.
54 A až toto tělo porušitelné vezme na sebe neporušitelnost, a toto tělo smrtelné vezme na sebe nesmrtelnost, potom se vyplní to, co stojí v Písmu: 'Vítězně je smrt navždy zničena!
55 Smrti, kdepak je tvoje vítězství? Smrti, kdepak je tvůj bodec?'
56 Ten bodec smrti je hřích, a hřích zase čerpal svou moc ze Zákona.
57 Ale Bohu díky! On nám popřává vítězství skrze našeho Pána Ježíše Krista.

[Responsory4]
@Commune/C11:Responsory6:s/:.\&.*/ Vylitá mast je tvé jméno./s

[Lectio6]
From the Acts of Pope Pius XII
_
Since indeed the universal Church hath at all times and throughout the ages manifested faith in the bodily Assumption of the Blessed Virgin Mary, and since the Bishops of the whole world by an almost unanimous agreement have petitioned that this truth, which is enshrined in Sacred Scripture and deeply rooted in the souls of Christ's faithful, and is also truly in accord with other revealed truths, should be defined as a dogma of the divine and Catholic Faith, Pope Pius XII, acceding to the requests of the whole Church, decreed that this privilege of the Blessed Virgin Mary be solemnly proclaimed, and thus, on the first day of November of the year of the Great Jubilee, nineteen hundred and fifty, at Rome, in the open square before the Basilica of St. Peter, surrounded by a throng of many Cardinals and Bishops of the Holy Roman Church who had come from distant parts of the earth, and before a great multitude of the faithful, with the whole Catholic world rejoicing, proclaimed in these words and with infallible statement the bodily Assumption of the Blessed Virgin Mary into heaven: Wherefore, having offered to God continual prayers of supplication, and having invoked the light of the Spirit of Truth, to the glory of Almighty God who hath enriched the Virgin Mary with his special favour; in honour of his Son, the immortal King of ages and victor over sin and death; for the increase of the glory of the same august Mother, and for the joy and exultation of the whole Church, by the authority of Our Lord Jesus Christ, of the holy Apostles Peter and Paul, and by our own authority, we pronounce, declare and define it to be a divinely revealed dogma that: The Immaculate Mother of God, Mary ever Virgin, was, at the end of her earthly life, assumed body and soul into heavenly glory. 

[Lectio7]
From the Holy Gospel according to Luke
!Luke 1:41-50
At that time: Elisabeth was filled with the Holy Ghost: and she spoke out with a loud voice, and said, Blessed art thou among women. And so on.
_
A Homily by St. Peter Canisius, the Priest
!De Maria Deipara Virgine, lib. 5, c. 6
The Church frequently and reverently keepeth feastdays dedicated to the Mother of God, realizing that it is a work pleasing to God and worthy of the faithful if many feasts, with fixed dates and public ceremonies, are celebrated in honour of the most blessed of all the blessed in heaven, the Mother of our Lord and God. Among all these feasts which have been celebrated so devotedly for so many years, even unto the present day, the Feast of the Assumption is considered the greatest and holdeth chief place. Indeed there was no happier or more joyful day for Mary, if we duly consider the happiness of both body and soul granted to her on that day. Then especially, as never before, her spirit, soul and body rejoiced wondrously in the living God and she could rightfully say: He hath regarded the lowliness of his handmaiden; for behold, all generations shall call me blessed; for he that is mighty hath magnified me.

[Lectio8]
O thrice blessed and truly august Mother, it is for this reason that we who love thee and thy Son cannot refrain from congratulating thee with all sincerity upon thine admirable and incomparable happiness, especially since everything that hath been said to thee and about thee by the Lord, is brought to a conclusion by thy beautiful passing away from this life, and in every wise hath been perfectly fulfilled. Blessed art thou who hast not only believed but hast this day attained unto the end of faith and the fruit of all virtue, and now at last hast merited to enjoy the most pleasing sight of him whom thou didst love and desire so greatly. Thyself a guest, thou didst receive Emmanuel who as a guest did enter into thee, as into a mighty fortress in this world; and today, thou in turn art received by him into his royal mansion, and magnificently welcomed with the highest honour, as befitteth one found worthy to be the Mother of such a Solomon.

[Lectio9]
O blessed day which sent so precious a gift from the desert of this world, and carried it to the holy and eternal city, so that universal and unheard of joy no less than admiration welled up in all the blessed in heaven. O blessed day, that fulfilled the long and ardent yearning of the gentle spouse, so that she might find what she had sought, that she might receive what she asked; that what she awaited she might possess securely, resting safely at last in that perfect vision and inward joy of the eternal and all-great Goodness. O blessed day which raised up and so highly exalted this most humble handmaiden of the Lord that she might become the most glorious Queen of Heaven and the mistress of the world. Indeed she could not have risen to more sublime heights since she had been elevated to the very Throne of the heavenly kingdom, and thus was established in glory next after Christ. O blessed and truly honourable is this day which constituted and confirmed for us a Queen and Mother who is at once powerful and merciful in the kingdom of God, that we might have her, who ever remaineth the Mother of the Judge, as a Mother of mercy protecting us and interceding for us with Christ, unceasingly watching over the work of our salvation.
&teDeum

[Capitulum Laudes]
!Jdt 13:22-23
v. Požehnal tebe Pán mocí svou, nebo skrze tebe na nic přivedl nepřátele naše. Požehnánas ty, dcero, od Hospodina, Boha nejvyššího, nade všecky ženy na zemi!
$Deo gratias

[Capitulum Laudes] (rubrica cisterciensis)
@Sancti/08-15t

[Hymnus Laudes]
v.  O Virgin, who shines with sun's rays surrounded,
And over whose head glows the twelve starred crown,
The moon of high heaven thy footstool is made,
Thou Queen of renown.
_
O thou Victress over hell and dreadful death,
Enthroned near Christ and ever our Mother,
Earth and the heavens sing loud of thy glory,
Thou sovereign Queen.
_
But evil still is menacing thy children, 
Confided to thee by thy crucified Son,
O Mother, draw nigh, `gainst the demon defend
By crushing his head.
_
Guard thou the faithful all who follow thy Son,
And bring back to the sheepfold of the Shepherd
Far wandering souls that are shadowed by death,
O save every one.
_
In kindness beg mercy for all poor sinners;
Also the sick, the poor, the sorrowful, aid;
`Midst life's thorns grant light and peaceful assurance
Of our salvation.
_
Praise to the Triune Godhead everlasting, 
Who hath caused thee, O Virgin, to be crowned,
And providently willed our queen thou shouldst be
Also our Mother.
Amen.

[Octava 2]
!Commemoration of the Octave of the Assumption of the B.M.V.
Ant. Who is she * that cometh up like the rising dawn, * fair as the moon, clear as the sun, terrible as a fenced camp set in battle array?
_
V. The holy Mother of God hath been exalted.
R. Over choirs of Angels, into the heavenly kingdom.
_
$Oremus
Almighty everlasting God, who hast taken body and soul into heaven the Immaculate Virgin Mary, Mother of thy Son: grant, we beseech thee, that by steadfastly keeping heaven as our goal we may be counted worthy to join her in glory.
$Per eumdem

[Lectio Prima]
!Jdt 15:10
v. Thou art the glory of Jerusalem, thou art the joy of Israel, thou art the honour of our people.

[Capitulum Sexta]
!Jdt 13:24-25
v. Blessed be the Lord, because he hath so magnified thy name this day, that thy praise shall not depart out of the mouth of men.
$Deo gratias
