[Rank]
Sv. Václava, Knížete a Mučedníka

[Oratio]
Bože, jenž jsi svatého Václava skrze palmu mučednictví přenesl z pozemského panování do nebeské slávy; jeho prosbami nás chraň od všech protivenství, a uděl, abychom se mohli radovat z jeho společenství.
$Per Dominum

[Lectio4]
Václav, český kníže, se narodil Křesťanskému Otci Vratislavovi a Pohanské Matce Drahomíře, a jeho Babička Ludmila, pře­svatá žena, jej zbožně vychovala. Vynikal ve všech ctnostech a s nejvyšší péčí zachoval své Panictví po celý život neporušené. Po ohavné vraždě Ludmily získala jeho Matka vládu nad Královstvím, spolu se svým mladším synem Boleslavem žili bezbožně a podnítili proti sobě nevoli Velmožů. Ti byli totiž tak vyčerpáni tyranskou a bezbož­nou vládou, že setřásli jho těchto dvou a na pražském Městě přivítali Václava jako Krále.

[Lectio5]
Svému  království vládl spíše zbožností než mocí, sirotky, vdovy a potřebné podporoval s takovou láskou, že v noci často na vlastních bedrech přinášel dřevo těm, kteří jej potřebovali, pomáhal pohřbívat chudé, osvobozoval zajatce, vězněné v žalářích navštěvoval i v noci za bouře, a penězi či radou často utěšoval. Tento Vládce mírného ducha se vždy převelice trápil, pokud musel kohokoliv, třebaže byl opravdu vinen, k smrti odsoudit. S nejvyšší zbožností měl v úctě Kněze, svýma rukama zaséval pšenici a lisoval hrozny, které se pak používaly při Mešní Oběti. V noci chodíval bosýma nohama kolem Kostelů po sněhu a ledu, a zanechával po sobě krvavé stopy, v nichž led roztál až na zem.

[Lectio6]
Anděly měl jako své tělesné strážce. Když totiž Václav přistoupil k souboji muže proti muži s Radislavem, vévodou Kouřimským, a to z toho důvodu, aby ušetřil své vojsko, jeho Protivník spatřil Anděly ve zbroji, kteří jej varovali, aby nedošel újmy. Vyděšený nepřítel se v úctě vrhl na zem a prosil o smilování. Když přišel do Německa, Císař uviděl dva Anděly a Václava, jak k němu přistupuje ozdoben zlatým křížem, takže rychle vstal z trůnu, objal jej, ozdobil Královskými Klenoty, a daroval mu paži svatého Víta. Nicméně bezbožný bratr za matčiny podpory jej pozval na hostinu a poté, co se Václav v předzvěsti blízké smrti modlil v Kostele, jej za pomoci zločinných společníků zavraždil. Krev, která se rozstříkla na zeď, lze spatřit dodnes, a Bůh sám smrtí pomstil nelidskost jeho matky. Jeho vrazi různými způsoby bídně zhynuli.

[Lectio94]
Wenceslas, Duke of Bohemia, was the son of Wratislas, who was a Christian, and Drahomira, a pagan, and was brought up in a devout way by his grandmother, Ludmilla, a most holy woman. He was famed for all kinds of virtue and took great care to keep his virginity intact throughout his life. The brutal murder of his grandmother, Ludmilla, left his mother secure in the administration of the kingdom. The irreligious life of Drahomira and her younger son, Boleslas, aroused the indignation of the nobles. Weary of this godless rule, they threw off the yoke of Drahomira and Boleslas and hailed Wenceslas as ruler in the city of Prague. He ruled the kingdom more by love than by power, and was careful and constant in relieving the needy and the afflicted. He honoured Priests with the highest veneration, and with his own hands sowed the wheat and pressed the wine to be used for the Sacrifice of the Mass. When he had been decorated by the Emperor with royal insígnia, his wicked brother, at the instigation of his mother, killed him while he was praying in a church. His blood may still be seen sprinkled upon the walls.
&teDeum

[Lectio7]
Čtení svatého Evangelia podle Matouše.
!Mat 10:34-42
At that time: Jesus said unto his disciples: Think not that I am come to send peace on earth: I came not to send peace, but a sword. And so on, and that which followeth.
_
A Homily by St. Hilary the Bishop
!Comment. in Matth., can. 10
What meaneth such division in the earth, by reason of the Lord's coming? Amongst the foremost commandments of the Law we have received this: Honour thy father and thy mother. And the Lord himself said: Peace I leave with you, my peace I give unto you. What meaneth this sword sent upon the earth? Why is father set at variance against son, and daughter against mother, and daughter-in-law against mother-in-law? Why shall a man's foes be they of his own household? From all this it might seem that open sanction is given to the neglect of natural duties&#8213;hatred everywhere, warfare everywhere, the sword of the Lord furiously raging between father and son, mother and daughter.

[Responsory7]
R. The Lord set a crown of gold upon his head, 
* Wherein was engraved Holiness, an ornament of honour, a costly work, goodly and beautiful.
V. For thou hast prevented him with the blessings of goodness, and hast set a crown of pure gold upon his head.
R. Wherein was engraved Holiness, an ornament of honour, a costly work, goodly and beautiful.

[Lectio8]
The sharpest weapon of all weapons is the sword, whereby is enforced the law of might, the severity of judgment, the punishment of sinners. Furthermore, the word Sword is in common use amongst the Prophets as a figure of the preaching of the new Gospel. Ye are to understand, then, that the word of God is often called a sword; and that this sword is sent upon the earth when the preaching of God's word entereth into the hearts of men. For then at once cometh grave dissénsion in the new man's old home, and thus a man's foes are they of his own household. For he is set at variance against them by the word of God, whereby he joyously abideth in newness of spirit both within and without, that is, in soul and body.

[Responsory8]
R. This is indeed a Martyr who for the Name of Christ poured forth his life-blood;
* Who feared not the judgment of the world, nor clung to any earthly honours; but set his heart on a heavenly reward.
V. The Lord guided the righteous in right paths, and shewed him the kingdom of God.
R. Who feared not the judgment of the world, nor clung to any earthly honours; but set his heart on a heavenly reward.
&Gloria
R. Who feared not the judgment of the world, nor clung to any earthly honours; but set his heart on a heavenly reward.

[Lectio9]
The Lord continueth in the same strain of exhortation and discernment. For after bidding us leave whatever we hold dearest in the world, he addeth: He that taketh not up his cross, and followeth after me, is not worthy of me. They that are Christ's have crucified the flesh with the affections and lusts. And hence he is unworthy of Christ who taketh not up his cross, because thereon we suffer, and so thereon we die with the Lord; yea, thereby are we buried with him, and do rise again with him; thereby we follow the Lord to victory, in newness of spirit and in the mystery of faith.
&teDeum
