[Rank]
In Festo Domini Nostri Jesu Christi Regis;;Duplex 1 class;;6.5;;

[Ant Vespera]
Mírumilovným * bude nazýván, a jeho trůn bude přepevný navždy.
Jeho království * je království věčné, a všichni králové mu slouží a poslouchají jej.
Hle, Muž Vycházející * jest jeho jméno; bude sedět a panovat, a přesvědčovat pohanské Národy o míru.
Hospodin * je náš soudce, Hospodin je náš zákonodárce; Hospodin, náš Král, on nás zachrání.
Hle, dal jsem tě * ve světlo národům, abys byl má spása až na konec země.

[Responsory Vespera 1] (rubrica cisterciensis)
Responsorium. Učinil nás královstvím a kněžstvem Bohu a svému Otci; * Jemu buď sláva a vláda, na věky věkův!
V. On je prvorozený mezi mrtvými, a první mezi králi země.
R. Jemu buď sláva a vláda, na věky věkův!

[Hymnus Vespera]
v. Všech věků že jsi Knížetem,
žes národů Králi nejvyšší,
že vládneš myslím, srdcím všem,
to vyznáváme, Ježíši.
_
Když bezbožný dav křičí v svět:
„Nechcem, by Kristus panoval!“,
tu s hrdostí náš volá ret,
že nejvyšší jsi světa Král.
_
Ó míru Kníže přemilý,
rač vzdornou hruď si podmanit,
a od tvé lásky zbloudilý
zas v jeden ovčín uveď lid!
_
Jen proto na kříž vstupuješ,
otvíráš náruč lidem všem,
svou lásku lidstvu zjevuješ,
jež hoří v srdci zraněném.
_
Ve svatostáncích žiješ skryt
pod vína, chleba způsobou,
a liješ spásu na svůj lid
svou proraženou útrobou.
_
Ať veřejně tě vládcové
všech národů ctí na zemi,
ať ctí tě mistři, soudcové,
zná zákon, věda, umění.
_
Ať položená k nohám tvým
se žezla králů zatřpytí,
rač sladkým žezlem vladařským
vlast naši, domy chrániti.
_
@:Doxology

[Doxology]
Ať tobě, sladký Ježíši,
jenž řídíš žezla národů,
i Otci, Duchu, nejvyšší
čest vzdává lidstvo v závodu.
Amen.

[Doxology] (rubrica cisterciensis)
Sláva buď tobě, Pane náš,
jenž řídíš žezla národů,
i Otci, Duchu, nejvyšší
čest vzdává lidstvo v závodu.
Amen.

[Versum 1]
V. Dána jest mi veškerá moc.
R. Na nebi i na zemi.

[Ant 1]
Dá mu * Pán Bůh trůn Davida, jeho otce; a bude kralovat v domě Jakubově navěky, a jeho království nebude konce, alleluja.

[Oratio]
Všemohoucí věčný Bože, jenž ve svém milovaném Synu, Králi veškerenstva, jsi vše chtěl obnovit; uděl laskavě, aby všechny rodiny národů, ranou hříchu znesvářené, byly podmaněny jeho přesladké vládě.
$Qui tecum

[Invit]
Ježíši Kristu, Králi králů * Pojďte a pokloňte se mu!

[Hymnus Matutinum]
v. Odvěčný Otce odlesku,
ty zářný světla výblesku,
buď tobě sláva, Ježíši,
cest, královská moc nejvyšší.
_
Ty jediný, než povstal svět,
byls věků touha, srdcí střed!,
ti právem Otec žezlo dial,
všem národům bys panoval.
_
Tys čisté Panny vzácný plod,
svou hlavou zve tě lidský rod,
tys balvan slétlý s výšin skal,
jenž lavinou svět zasypal.
_
Krutému vládci poddaný
rod lidský hříchem spoutaný,
zpřerážel pouta mocí tvou
a proniká v říš nebeskou.
_
Ó vládce, kněže, mistře náš,
kol roucha krví psáno máš:
„Král králů, vládce ve výši,
všech knížat Kníže nej vyšší.
_
Dnes skláníme se k nohám tvým,
jenž vládneš právem nade vším :
tam zkvétá blaho občanů,
kde poslušnost tvých zákonů.
_
Ať tobě, sladký Ježíši,
jenž řídíš žezla národů,
i Otci, Duchu, pejvyšší
čest vzdává lidstvo v závodu. Amen.

[Ant Matutinum]
I have been set up * as King by Him on Sion, His holy mountain, proclaiming His decree.;;2
Thou hast crowned him * with glory and honor, O Lord, putting all things under His feet.;;8
Reach up * you ancient portals, that the King of glory may come in.;;23
The Lord is enthroned * as King forever; may the Lord bless his people with peace.;;28
A tempered rod * is thy royal scepter; therefore shall nations praise thee forever and ever.;;44
Sing praise to our King * sing praise; for he is the great King over all earth.;;46
In Him * shall all the tribes of the earth be blessed; all the nations shall proclaim His greatness.;;71
And I will make Him * the firstborn, highest of the kings of the earth.;;88(2-30)
His throne * shall be like the sun before Me; like the moon, which remains forever.;;88(31-53)

[Nocturn 2 Versum]
V. Přineste Hospodinu, rodiny národů.
R. Přineste Hospodinu slávu a vládu.

[Nocturn 3 Versum]
V. Budou se mu klanět všichni králové země.
R. Všechny národy mu budou sloužit.

[Lectio1]
Lesson from the letter of St. Paul the Apostle to the Colossians
!Col 1:3-8
3 Grace be to you and peace from God our Father, and from the Lord Jesus Christ. We give thanks to God, and the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, praying always for you.
4 Hearing your faith in Christ Jesus, and the love which you have towards all the saints.
5 For the hope that is laid up for you in heaven, which you have heard in the word of the truth of the gospel,
6 Which is come unto you, as also it is in the whole world, and bringeth forth fruit and groweth, even as it doth in you, since the day you heard and knew the grace of God in truth.
7 As you learned of Epaphras, our most beloved fellow servant, who is for you a faithful minister of Christ Jesus;
8 Who also hath manifested to us your love in the spirit.

[Responsory1]
R. He shall sit upon the throne of David, and upon his kingdom forever.
* And His name shall be called God, the Mighty, the Prince of peace.
V. His dominion is vast and forever peaceful.
R. And His name shall be called God, the Mighty, the Prince of peace.

[Lectio2]
!Col 1:9-16
9 Therefore we also, from the day that we heard it, cease not to pray for you, and to beg that you may be filled with the knowledge of his will, in all wisdom, and spiritual understanding:
10 That you may walk worthy of God, in all things pleasing; being fruitful in every good work, and increasing in the knowledge of God:
11 Strengthened with all might, according to the power of his glory, in all patience and longsuffering with joy,
12 Giving thanks to God the Father, who hath made us worthy to be partakers of the lot of the saints in light:
13 Who hath delivered us from the power of darkness, and hath translated us into the kingdom of the Son of his love,
14 In whom we have redemption through his blood, the remission of sins;
15 Who is the image of the invisible God, the firstborn of every creature:
16 For in him were all things created in heaven and on earth, visible and invisible, whether thrones, or dominations, or principalities, or powers: all things were created by him and in him.

[Responsory2]
R. In the vision during the night I saw the Son of man coming on the clouds of heaven; and He was given kingship and glory.
* Nations and people of every language serve Him.
V. His dominion is an everlasting dominion that shall not be taken away, His kingship shall not be destroyed.
R. Nations and people of every language serve Him.

[Lectio3]
!Col 1:17-23
17 And he is before all, and by him all things consist.
18 And he is the head of the body, the church, who is the beginning, the firstborn from the dead; that in all things he may hold the primacy:
19 Because in him, it hath well pleased the Father, that all fullness should dwell;
20 And through him to reconcile all things unto himself, making peace through the blood of his cross, both as to the things that are on earth, and the things that are in heaven.
21 And you, whereas you were some time alienated and enemies in mind in evil works:
22 Yet now he hath reconciled in the body of his flesh through death, to present you holy and unspotted, and blameless before him:
23 If so ye continue in the faith, grounded and settled, and immoveable from the hope of the gospel which you have heard, which is preached in all the creation that is under heaven, whereof I, Paul, am made a minister.

[Responsory3]
R. You, Bethlehem-Ephrata, too small among the clans of Juda, from you shall come forth for Me one who is to be ruler in Israel;
* And He shall be Peace.
V. His origin is from old, from ancient times. He shall stand firm and shepherd his flock by the strength of the Lord. 
R. And He shall be Peace.
&Gloria
R. And He shall be Peace.

[Lectio4]
From the Encylical Letters of Pope Pius XI
!Litt. Encycl. Quas primas diei 11 Decembris 1925
Since this Holy Year therefore has provided more than one opportunity to enhance the glory of the kingdom of Christ, we deem it in keeping with our Apostolic office to accede to the desire of many of the Cardinals, Bishops, and faithful, made known to Us both individually and collectively, by closing this Holy Year with the insertion into the Sacred Liturgy of a special feast of the Kingship of Our Lord Jesus Christ. This matter is so dear to Our heart, Venerable Brethren, that I would wish to address to you a few words concerning it. It will be for you later to explain in a manner suited to the understanding of the faithful what We are about to say concerning the Kingship of Christ, so that the annual feast which We shall decree may be attended with much fruit and produce beneficial results in the future. It has long been a common custom to give to Christ the metaphorical title of „King,“ because of the high degree of perfection whereby he excels all creatures. So he is said to reign „in the hearts of men,“ both by reason of the keenness of his intellect and the extent of his knowledge, and also because he is very truth, and it is from him that truth must be obediently received by all mankind. He reigns, too, in the wills of men, for in him the human will was perfectly and entirely obedient to the Holy Will of God, and further by his grace and inspiration he so subjects our free-will as to incite us to the most noble endeavors. He is King of hearts, too, by reason of his „charity which exceedeth all knowledge.“ And his mercy and kindness which draw all men to him, for never has it been known, nor will it ever be, that man be loved so much and so universally as Jesus Christ. But if we ponder this matter more deeply, we cannot but see that the title and the power of King belongs to Christ as man in the strict and proper sense too. For it is only as man that he may be said to have received from the Father „power and glory and a kingdom,“ since the Word of God, as consubstantial with the Father, has all things in common with him, and therefore has necessarily supreme and absolute dominion over all things created.

[Responsory4]
R. Rejoice heartily, o daughter Sion, and shout for you, o daughter Jerusalem! See your King shall come to you; a just Saviour is He!
* And He shall proclaim peace to the nations.
V. His dominion shall be from sea to sea, and from the river, to the ends of the earth.
R. And He shall proclaim peace to the nations.

[Lectio5]
The foundation of this power and dignity of Our Lord is rightly indicated by Cyril of Alexandria. „Christ,“ he says, „has dominion over all creatures, a dominion not seized by violence nor usurped, but his by essence and by nature.“ His kingship is founded upon the ineffable hypostatic union. From this it follows not only that Christ is to be adored by angels and men, but that to him as man angels and men are subject, and must recognize his empire; by reason of the hypostatic union Christ has power over all creatures. But a thought that must give us even greater joy and consolation is this that Christ is our King by acquired, as well as by natural right, for he is our Redeemer. Would that they who forget what they have cost their Saviour might recall the words: „You were not redeemed with corruptible things, but with the precious blood of Christ, as of a lamb unspotted and undefiled.“ We are no longer our own property, for Christ has purchased us „with a great price“; our very bodies are the „members of Christ.“
14. Let Us explain briefly the nature and meaning of this lordship of Christ. It consists, We need scarcely say, in a threefold power which is essential to lordship. This is sufficiently clear from the scriptural testimony already adduced concerning the universal dominion of our Redeemer, and moreover it is a dogma of faith that Jesus Christ was given to man, not only as our Redeemer, but also as a law-giver, to whom obedience is due. Not only do the gospels tell us that he made laws, but they present him to us in the act of making them. Those who keep them show their love for their Divine Master, and he promises that they shall remain in his love. He claimed judicial power as received from his Father, when the Jews accused him of breaking the Sabbath by the miraculous cure of a sick man. „For neither doth the Father judge any man; but hath given all judgment to the Son.“ In this power is included the right of rewarding and punishing all men living, for this right is inseparable from that of judging. Executive power, too, belongs to Christ, for all must obey his commands; none may escape them, nor the sanctions he has imposed.

[Responsory5]
R. He must reign, for God has put all things under His feet,
* That God may be all in all!
V. When all things are made subject to Him, then the Son Himself will also be made subject to the Father.
R. That God may be all in all!

[Lectio6]
This kingdom is spiritual and is concerned with spiritual things. That this is so the above quotations from Scripture amply prove, and Christ by his own action confirms it. On many occasions, when the Jews and even the Apostles wrongly supposed that the Messiah would restore the liberties and the kingdom of Israel, he repelled and denied such a suggestion. When the populace thronged around him in admiration and would have acclaimed him King, he shrank from the honor and sought safety in flight. Before the Roman magistrate he declared that his kingdom was not of this world. The gospels present this kingdom as one which men prepare to enter by penance, and cannot actually enter except by faith and by baptism, which, though an external rite, signifies and produces an interior regeneration. This kingdom is opposed to none other than to that of Satan and to the power of darkness. It demands of its subjects a spirit of detachment from riches and earthly things, and a spirit of gentleness. They must hunger and thirst after justice, and more than this, they must deny themselves and carry the cross. Christ as our Redeemer purchased the Church at the price of his own blood; as priest he offered himself, and continues to offer himself as a victim for our sins. Is it not evident, then, that his kingly dignity partakes in a manner of both these offices? It would be a grave error, on the other hand, to say that Christ has no authority whatever in civil affairs, since, by virtue of the absolute empire over all creatures committed to him by the Father, all things are in his power. Therefore by Our Apostolic Authority We institute the Feast of the Kingship of Our Lord Jesus Christ to be observed yearly throughout the whole world on the last Sunday of the month of October - the Sunday, that is, which immediately precedes the Feast of All Saints. We further ordain that the dedication of mankind to the Sacred Heart of Jesus, to be renewed yearly.

[Responsory6]
R. He has made us to be a kingdom, and priest to God His Father;
* To Him belong glory and dominion forever and ever!
V. He is the firstborn of the dead, and the ruler of the kings of the earth.
R. To Him belong glory and dominion forever and ever!
&Gloria
R. To Him belong glory and dominion forever and ever!

[Lectio7]
From the Holy Gospel according to John
!John 18:33-37
In that time: Pilate said to Jesus: Art thou the king of the Jews? Jesus answered: Sayest thou this thing of thyself, or have others told it thee of me? And so on.
_
Homily of St. Augustine, Bishop
!Tract. 51 in Joann. 12-13; Tract 117 in Joann. 19-21
What great matter was it for the King of all worlds to become King of men? For Christ was not King of Israel for exacting of tribute, or arming a host with the sword, and visibly subduing enemies: but King of Israel that he should rule minds, that he should counsel for eternity, that he should bring unto the kingdom of heaven them that believe, hope, and love. Being then, Son of God, the Word by whom all things were made, that it should be his will to be King of Israel is condescension, not preferment, a betokening of mercy, not an increasing of power. For he who was called on earth King of the Jews is in heaven Lord of the Angels. But is Christ King of the Jews only, or also King of the Gentiles? Yea, of the Gentiles also. For when he said in the prophecy: But I am set by him as King upon Sion his holy mountain, preaching the precepts of the Lord, lest on account of the Mount Sion, any should say that he was set as King only of the Jews, he hath straightway subjoined: The Lord hath said unto me, Thou art my Son: this day I have begotten thee. Ask of me, and I shall give thee the heathen for thy inheritance, and the uttermost parts of the earth for thy possession.

[Responsory7]
R. The kingdom of this world has became the kingdom of our Lord, and of His Christ,
* And He shall reign for ever and ever.
V. All the families of the nations shall bow down before Him; for dominion is the Lord's.
R. And He shall reign for ever and ever.

[Lectio8]
!Tract. 115 in Joannem 18-36.
Jesus answered: My kingdom is not of this world: if my kingdom were of this world, then would my servants fight, that I should be delivered to the Jews; but now is my kingdom not from hence. This it is which was the will of our Good Master that we should know: but first we were to be shown the vanity of the opinion concerning his kingdom, entertained by men, whether Gentiles or Jews,from whom Pilate had heard that: as if the reason why he must be punished by death, were that he had affected a kingdom to which he had no right; or because the reigning are wont to look with an evil eye upon those destined to reign; and there were indeed need to beware lest his kingdom should be adverse either to the Romans or the Jews. Now the Lord might have answered at once: My kingdom is not from hence: to the first question put by the Governor, Art thou the King of the Jews ? But in putting a question in return, namely, whether he spake this of himself, or had been told it by others, it was his will to show by Pilate's reply that this had been laid up to him as a crime by the Jews in their conference with the Governor: thus laying open to us, The thoughts of men, which he knew: that they are vain: and to them after Pilate's answer, making a reply which was more reasonable and suitable both to Jews and to Gentiles: My kingdom is not of this world.

[Responsory8]
R. The ten horns that you saw are the kings. These will fight with the Lamb, and the Lamb will overcome them.
* For He is the Lord of lords and the King of Kings.
V. The Lord our God Almighty now reigns, Let us be glad and rejoice, and give glory to Him. 
R. For He is the Lord of lords and the King of Kings.
&Gloria
R. For He is the Lord of lords and the King of Kings.

[Ant Laudes]
Vybuduje * Bůh nebeský říši, která pokoří a pohltí všechny říše, a vytrvá navěky.
Dal mu Hospodin * moc a slávu a vládu; a všechny národy, kmeny a jazyky mu budou sloužit.
Vytrysknou vody živé * z Jerusaléma, a Hospodin Král bude vládnout nad celou zemí.
Veleben bude * ve všech končinách země, a on bude mírem.
Národ a království, * které ti nebudou sloužit, zahynou; a národy budou zničeny v samotě.

[Capitulum Laudes]
!Kol 1:12-13
v. Bratři, vzdáváme díky Bohu Otci, že nás učinil hodnými k účasti na podílu svatých ve světle. On nás totiž vytrhl z moci temnosti a převedl do království svého milovaného Syna.
$Deo gratias

[Hymnus Laudes]
v. Praporce v slavném průvodu
rozvíjí vdáli Kristus Král,
sem spějte proudy národů,
a pějte jemu píseň chval.
_
On panství svého nešíří
svým mečem, rukou násilnou,
když povýšen byl na kříži,
vše podmanil si láskou svou.
_
Ta obec šťastna mnohokrát,
v níž řádně vládne králů Král,
ta spěchá zákon vykonat,
jejž zemi kdysi v lásce dal.
_
Tam neřinčí zbraň prokletá,
mír zárukou je úmluvám,
tam svornost věčně rozkvétá,
řád občanský je pevný tam.
_
Tam věrnost střeží manželství,
tam mládež čista dospívá
tam na prazích se domů skví
květ ctností, láska smířlivá.
_
Kéž svým nás jasem zasáhne
tvé světlo, králi nejdražší,
ať svět až míru dosáhne,
ti vděčně pocty přináší.
_
Ať tobě, sladký Ježíši,
jenž řídíš žezla národů,
i Otci, Duchu, nejvyšší
čest vzdává lidstvo v závodu.
Amen.

[Versum 2]
V. Rozmnožena bude jeho říše.
R. A mír nebude mít konce.

[Ant 2]
Učinil nás Bohu * a Otci svému královstvím, první mezi mrtvými, a Vládce králů země, alleluia.

[Lectio Prima]
!Kol 1:19-20
v. Bůh totiž rozhodl, aby se v něm usídlila veškerá plnost dokonalosti, a že skrze něho usmíří se sebou všecko tvorstvo jak na nebi, tak na zemi v Kristu Ježíši, našem Pánu.

[Versum Prima]
Jenž prvenství ve všem držíš.

[Capitulum Tertia]
!Kol 1:12-13
v. Bratři, vzdáváme díky Bohu Otci, že nás učinil hodnými k účasti na podílu svatých ve světle. On nás totiž vytrhl z moci temnosti a převedl do království svého milovaného Syna.
$Deo gratias

[Responsory Breve Tertia]
R.br. Dána je mi * Veškerá moc.
R. Dána je mi * Veškerá moc.
V. Na nebi i na zemi.
R. Veškerá moc.
&Gloria
R. Dána je mi * Veškerá moc.

[Capitulum Sexta]
!Kol 1;16-18
v. Skrze něj a v něm bylo stvořeno všechno, a on je dříve než všechno ostatní a všechno sestává z něj. A on je hlava těla Církve, on je počátek, prvorozený mezi vzkříšenými z mrtvých, aby tak měl ve všem prvenství.
$Deo gratias

[Responsory Breve Sexta]
R.br. Přineste Hospodinu, * Rodiny národů.
R. Přineste Hospodinu, * Rodiny národů.
V. Přineste Hospodinu slávu a vládu.
R. Rodiny národů.
&Gloria
R. Přineste Hospodinu, * Rodiny národů.

[Capitulum Nona]
!Kol 1:19-20
v. Bůh totiž rozhodl, aby se v něm usídlila veškerá plnost dokonalosti, a že skrze něho usmíří se sebou všecko tvorstvo jak na nebi, tak na zemi v Kristu Ježíši, našem Pánu.
$Deo gratias

[Responsory Breve Nona]
R.br. Budou se mu klanět * Všichni králové země.
R. Budou se mu klanět * Všichni králové země.
V. Všechny národy mu budou sloužit.
R. Všichni králové země.
&Gloria
R. Budou se mu klanět * Všichni králové země.

[Ant 3]
Má na svém oděvu * a na svém lýtku napsáno: Král králů, a Pán panovníků. Jemu buď sláva a vláda na věky věkův.
