[Rank]
sv. Alžběty <i>Durynské</i>, Vdovy

[Oratio]
Srdce svých věřících, Bože - smilovníku, osvěť; a slavnými prosbami svaté Alžběty nám pomoz odvrhnout přízeň světa, a vždy se radovat z nebeské útěchy.
$Per Dominum

[Invit]
For the confession of Blessed Elisabeth * let us praise our God.

[Lectio4]
Elisabeth, daughter of Andrew II., King of Hungary, (was born in the year 1207.) She began to fear God even from a little child, and grew in grace as she grew in years. (In her fourteenth year) she was married to Lewis, Landgrave of Hesse and Thuringia, and thenceforth gave herself up to the things of her husband, with as much zeal as to the things of God. She rose in the night to make long prayers. She consecrated herself to works of mercy. She waited continually on widows and orphans, the sick and the needy. When a sore famine came (in the year 1225,) she provided corn bountifully from her own house. She founded an house of refuge for lepers, and would even kiss their hands and feet. She built also a great hospital for the suffering and starving poor.

[Lectio5]
After husband died (on his way to the Holy War, on the eleventh day of September, 1227.) Then Elizabeth, more utterly to be God's only, laid aside all the garments of earthly state, clad herself in mean raiment, and entered the Third Order of St. Francis, wherein she was a burning and shining light of longsuffering and lowliness. (Her brotherin-law) stripped her (and her three little children) of all their goods, and turned them out of their own house. She was deserted by all, and assailed with insults, gibes, and calumnies, but she bore it all with patience, yea, even rejoicing that she suffered such things for God's sake. She gave herself to the meanest services toward the poor and sick, and sought for them the needfuls of life, while she lived herself only on potherbs and vegetables.

[Lectio6]
In these and many other holy works she prayerfully passed the rest of her life, till (in the twenty-fourth year of her age,) the end of her earthly pilgrimage came, as she had already foretold to her servants. With her eyes fixed on heaven, absorbed in the thought of God, by Him wondrously comforted, and strengthened by the Sacraments, she fell asleep in the Lord, (upon the 19th day of November, in the year of salvation 1231. ) Forthwith many miracles were wrought at her grave, which being known and duly proved, Gregory IX. numbered her name among those of the Saints.

[Lectio94]
From her childhood Elizabeth, daughter of Andrew, king of Hungary, began to fear God; and she grew in holiness as she grew in age. When she was married to Ludwig, Landgrave of Hesse and Thuringia, she devoted herself no less to the service of God than to the welfare of her husband. She was constant in prayer and in the works of mercy, zealously serving widows, orphans, the sick and the needy, for whom she built a fine hospital. When her husband died, she put on a coarse garment and, in order to serve God more freely, entered the Order of Penitents of St. Francis, where she shone most especially with the virtues of patience and humility. These virtues she showed when she was despoiled of her possessions, driven from her home and abandoned by all. With unconquered spirit she endured insults, derision and detractions, even rejoicing greatly that she could suffer such things for God. Having passed her life most religiously in holy works, she fell asleep in the Lord. Famous for miracles, she was enrolled among the Saints by Gregory IX.
&teDeum
