[Officium]
Sv. Klementa <i>I.,</i> Papeže a Mučedníka

[Name]
Klementa

[Ant Vespera]
Zatímco se svatý Klement modlil, * zjevil se mu Anděl Boží.;;109
Ne pro mé zásluhy * mě Pán poslal k vám, abych se stal účastným vašich korun.;;110
Viděl jsem na hoře * státi Beránka, a z pod jeho nohy vyvěral pramen vody živé.;;111
Z pod jeho nohy * vyvěral pramen vody živé, proud této řeky dává radost obci Boží.;;112
Všechny národy * v okolí uvěřili v Krista Pána.;;116

[Ant 1]
Modleme se všichni * k našemu Pánu Ježíši Kristu, aby svým Vyznavačům otevřel živý pramen.

[Oratio] (nisi communi Summorum Pontificum)
Bože, jenž nás rozradostňuješ každoroční slavností svatého Klementa, svého Mučedníka a Biskupa; uděl laskavě, abychom, když slavíme jeho narození pro nebe, napodobovali též ctnost jeho utrpení.
$Per Dominum

[Responsory1o]
R. While Holy Clement was at prayer, there appeared unto him the Lamb of God;
* With the river of the water of life proceeding from under His Feet, even that river, the streams whereof make glad the city of God.
V. And I looked, and, lo, a Lamb stood on the mount.
R. With the river of the water of life proceeding from under His Feet, even that river, the streams whereof make glad the city of God.

[Responsory2o]
R. They all said with one voice Holy Clement, pray for us;
* That we may be made worthy of the promises of Christ.
V. For no worthiness of mine own hath the Lord sent me unto you, to become a partaker in your crowns.
R. That we may be made worthy of the promises of Christ.

[Responsory3o]
R. Lord, Thou hast given unto thy Martyr Clement a tabernacle in the sea, after the fashion of a temple of marble, builded by the hands of Angels.
* And Thou givest a way thither unto the people on the land, that they may tell of thy marvellous works.
V. Lord, Thou didst give unto thy Saints a way in the sea, and a path through the mighty waters.
R. And Thou gavest a way thither unto the people on the land, that they may tell of thy marvellous works.
&Gloria
R. And Thou gavest a way thither unto the people on the land, that they may tell of thy marvellous works.

[Lectio4]
Clement, the son of Faustinus, was a Roman, from the quarter of the Coelian Mount. He was a disciple of the blessed Peter, and is the same concerning whom Paul saith, writing to the Philippians And I entreat thee also, true yokefellow, help those women which laboured with me in the Gospel, with Clement also, and with other my fellow-labourers, whose names are written in the book of life. ~(iv. 3.) (He succeeded Cletus as Bishop of Rome.) He it was who divided the seven quarters of the city among seven scribes, one to each, whose duty it was to search out most carefully, and record in writing the sufferings and acts of the Martyrs. He himself also wrote much, and that most orthodox and healthy, whereby he clearly explained the Christian Religion.

[Lectio5]
His teaching and the holiness of his life brought many to believe in Christ, and he was therefore exiled by the Emperor Trajan to Kherson, in the Crimea, where he found two thousand Christians, who had been condemned by the same Trajan. There they all worked in the marble quarries. During their labour they suffered for want of water, and Clement prayed, and then went up an hill hard by, on the top whereof he saw a Lamb standing, touching with its right foot a flowing spring of sweet waters. Therewith they all quenched their thirst, and by this miracle many unbelievers were brought to believe in Christ, and began to honour the holiness of Clement.

[Lectio6]
These things moved Trajan to send a messenger to the Crimea, who tied an anchor about Clement's neck, and cast him into the deep of the sea. After it had been done, while the Christians were praying on the shore, the sea went back three miles, and when they followed it, they found a grotto of marble, in form like a temple, and therein a stone coffin wherein was laid the body of the Martyr, and, hard by, the anchor wherewith he had been sunk. Then were the country people moved to receive the faith of Christ. The body of Clement was afterwards brought to Rome, in the time of Pope Nicholas I, and buried in his own Church. A Church was also built in the Crimea, in the place where God had made the water to break forth. Clement lived as Pope nine years, six months, and six days. He held two Ordinations in the month of December, wherein he made ten Priests, two Deacons, and fifteen Bishops for diverse places.

[Lectio94]
Clement, a Roman and disciple of blessed Peter, assigned each of the seven districts of the City to a notary who was to investigate carefully the sufferings of the Martyrs and their deeds and to write them down. He himself wrote a great deal to explain the Christian religion rightly for the salvation of others. Because he was converting many to the faith of Christ by his teaching, and the holiness of his life, he was exiled by the emperor Trajan to the wilderness near the city of Cherson across the Black Sea. There, he found two thousand Christians who had been similarly condemned by the emperor. When he had converted many nonbelievers in that region to the faith of Christ, at the command of the same emperor he was cast into the sea with an anchor tied to his neck, and won the crown of martyrdom. His body was later brought to Rome by Pope Nicholas I and honorably buried in the Church which had already been dedicated to him.
&teDeum

[Ant 2]
Když se dala do pohybu <i>popravčí</i> cesta k moři, * lid velikým hlasem zvolal: Pane Ježíši Kriste, zachraň jej; Klement však v slzách pravil: Přijmi, Otče, mého ducha.

[Ant 2] (rubrica cisterciensis)
Modleme se všichni * k Pánu Ježíši Kristu, aby nám ukázal tělo svého Mučedníka.

[Ant 3]
Dal jsi, Pane, * příbytek svému Mučedníku Klementovi v moři, na způsob chrámu z mramoru, který postavily ruce andělské; cestu jsi připravil lidu země, aby vyprávěli o tvých podivuhodných skutcích.
