[Rank]
Die II infra octavam Pentecostes;;Duplex I classis;;7;;ex Pasc7-0

[RankNewcal]
Feria II post Pentecostes;;Feria;;1;;

[Rule]
ex Pasc7-0;
9 lectiones
Psalmi Dominica;
Antiphonas horas
Psalm5 Vespera=116
Hymnus Tertia


[Lectio1]
Lesson from the Acts of Apostles
!Acts 19:1-4
1 And it came to pass, while Apollo was at Corinth, that Paul having passed through the upper coasts, came to Ephesus, and found certain disciples. 
2 And he said to them: Have you received the Holy Ghost since ye believed? But they said to him: We have not so much as heard whether there be a Holy Ghost. 
3 And he said: In what then were you baptized? Who said: In John's baptism. 
4 Then Paul said: John baptized the people with the baptism of penance, saying: That they should believe in him who was to come after him, that is to say, in Jesus. 

[Lectio2]
!Acts 19:5-8
5 Having heard these things, they were baptized in the name of the Lord Jesus.
6 And when Paul had imposed his hands on them, the Holy Ghost came upon them, and they spoke with tongues and prophesied. 
7 And all the men were about twelve. 
8 And entering into the synagogue, he spoke boldly for the space of three months, disputing and exhorting concerning the kingdom of God. 

[Lectio3]
!Acts 19:9-12
9 But when some were hardened, and believed not, speaking evil of the way of the Lord, before the multitude, departing from them, he separated the disciples, disputing daily in the school of one Tyrannus. 
10 And this continued for the space of two years, so that all they who dwelt in Asia, heard the word of the Lord, both Jews and Gentiles.
11 And God wrought by the hand of Paul more than common miracles. 
12 So that even there were brought from his body to the sick, handkerchiefs and aprons, and the diseases departed from them, and the wicked spirits went out of them. 

[Lectio4]
Sermon by S. Augustine, Bishop; 
!267, on Pentecost)
To-day is the Solemnity of the great Lord and God, and it also marks the memorial of the great grace that was poured out upon us: for it is the Solemnity of God that is being kept, so that what once took place should not perish from memory. The word Solemnity is derived from that which recurs year by year: just as the stream is said to be perpetual because it does not dry up in the summer, but flows throughout the year: that is, it is perennial, yearly: so too is a solemnity that is celebrated repeatedly year by year.

[Lectio5]
We celebrate to-day the coming of the Holy Spirit. The Lord sent from heaven the Spirit whom he had promised on earth: for he had so promised that the Spirit should be sent from heaven. If I go not away, said the Lord, He will not come unto you: but if I depart, I will send him unto you. He suffered, he died, he rose again, he ascended. It remained that he should fulfill that which he had promised.

[Lectio6]
Waiting for this, there were, as it is written, a hundred and twenty of his disciples, ten times the number of the Apostles. he chose twelve, and to one hundred and twenty he sent his Spirit. These, therefore, awaiting the promise, were in one room and were praying, because they already desired it with the same faith, with the same supplication, wit the same spiritual longing. They were new bottles, the new wine from heaven was expected, and it came. For he who had come mightly from Bozrah had now trodden the winepress and was glorified. For we read in the Gospel, the Spirit was not yet given, because Jesus had not yet given, because Jesus had not been glorified.
You hadve already heard of the great miracle that resulted. All there present spoke one tongue. The Holy Spirit came, they were filled, they began to speak in different languages of all the peoples, which they knew not, nor had  he ever learned. But he who had come taught them. He entered in, he poured, they were filled. And this was the sign, whosoever had received the Holy Spirit and spoke all manner of tongues: it was not only the hundred and twenty.

[Lectio7]
From the Holy Gospel according to John
!John 3:16-21
At that time Jesus said unto Nicodemus God so loved the world that He gave~
His Only-begotte Son, that whosoever believeth in Hii should not perish, but~
have everlas ing life. And so on.
_
Homily by St Austin, Bishop of Hippo
!12th Tract on John
The Physician cometh that, as often as in him lieth, he may heal the sick man.~
He is his own destroyer where will not keep the commandments of the Physician.~
Into the world came the Saviour. Why is He called the Saviour of the world but~
because He came "into the world not to condemn the world, but that the world~
through Him might be saved"? If thou willest not be saved through Him, thou wilt~
be condemned of thyself. And why say I that thou wilt be condemned Because it~
is written " He that believeth in Him is not condemned." What then canst thou~
hope that He will say of " him that believeth not," but that He will be~
condemned And indeed He doth say farther " He that believeth not is~
condemned already." He is condemned already, though the condemnation be not~
yet openly pronounced.

[Lectio8]
He is condemned already, for " the Lord knoweth them that are His." He knoweth~
them for whom is laid up the crown, and likewise them that are reserved unto the~
fire. His eye seeth in the field of the world the distinction of the wheat and~
of the straw, of the and of the tares. " He that believeth not is condemned~
already." And why " Because he hath not believed in the Name of the Only-ben~
Son of God. And this is the condemnation that light is come into the world,~
and men loved darkness rather than light, because their deeds were evil." "~
Because their deeds were evil " but, my brethren, is there one man of whom God~
findeth that his works are good No, not one. God findeth all works to be (in~
themselves) bad. How then do we hear that some there be who do truth, and come~
to the light For these words come anon " But he that doeth truth, cometh to~
the light."

[Lectio9]
But the Lord saith [of such as these, who are condemned already, because they~
believe not in Him] " They loved darkness rather than light." And here He~
maketh the great point [of difference between such, and them that do the truth.]~
There are many who have loved their sins there are many who have confessed~
their sins and he that confessed and denounceth his sin, is working already~
with God. God denounceth thy sins, and if thou denounce them likewise, then dost~
thou join thyself with God in His act. The man and the sinner are two different~
things. God made the man, and the man made the sinner. Put away thy work, and~
God will save His. Thou art behoven to hate in thyself thine own work, and to~
love God's work. When thine own works begin to displease thee, then is it that~
thou beginnest to do well, because thou denouncest thine own evil works. The~
first thing to do, if thou wouldest do good works, is to acknowledge thine evil~
ones.

[Ant 2]
God so loved the world * that He gave His Only-begotten Son, that whosoever~
believeth in Him should not perish, but have everlasting life. Alleluia.

[Oratio 2]
O God, Who didst give thine Holy Spirit unto thine Apostles, grant unto thy~
people the effectual fruit of their godly supplications, and as Thou hast given~
them faith, give them also peace.
$Per Dominum eiusdem

[Ant 3]
If a Man love Me * he will keep My word and My Father will love him, and We~
will come unto him, and make Our abode with him. Alleluia.


[LectioE]
Continuation of the Holy Gospel according to John
!John 3:16-21
3:16 For God so loved the world, as to give his only begotten Son; that whosoever believeth in him, may not perish, but may have life everlasting.
3:17 For God sent not his Son into the world, to judge the world, but that the world may be saved by him.
3:18 He that believeth in him is not judged. But he that doth not believe, is already judged: because he believeth not in the name of the only begotten Son of God.
3:19 And this is the judgment: because the light is come into the world, and men loved darkness rather than the light: for their works were evil.
3:20 For every one that doth evil hateth the light, and cometh not to the light, that his works may not be reproved.
3:21 But he that doth truth, cometh to the light, that his works may be made manifest, because they are done in God.
$Te decet
